Telco to Techco

2023 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT

Bell is modernizing to a tech
services and digital media leader.
With the principles of low touch,
low cost and simplification, our
focus on operational transformation
will speed up innovation and
time to market. We’re building
resilient networks and embracing
automation to offer even better
products, services and customer
experiences. All with a continuing
commitment to corporate
responsibility that helps create
a better world, better communities
and a better workplace.

Table of contents
About this report ......................................................................................................................... 2
Strategic overview....................................................................................................................... 6
Caution regarding forward-looking statements ...................................................................... 6
Who we are ........................................................................................................................... 8
Purpose and strategic imperatives .......................................................................................8
Bell for Better ....................................................................................................................9
Organizational overview ................................................................................................... 10
BCE 2023 at a glance........................................................................................................ 11
Leadership and recognition............................................................................................... 12
Our financial performance ................................................................................................ 16
Message from the Chair of the Board..................................................................................... 18

Message from the President and CEO .................................................................................... 20
External operating context .................................................................................................... 22
Stakeholder engagement and key ESG topics ...................................................................... 24

Value creation ...................................................................................................................... 25
Our value creation model.................................................................................................. 25
Our networks .................................................................................................................. 26
— Building Canada’s best networks
— Privacy and information security

Our customers and relationships........................................................................................ 30
— Customers
— Community
— Suppliers

Our products and services ................................................................................................ 37
— Innovative digital technologies
— Contributing to a better world through our products and services
— Delivering compelling, original and meaningful content

Our environment ............................................................................................................. 46
— A mature environmental management approach
— Climate change
— Circular economy

Our people...................................................................................................................... 53
— Team member well-being
— Diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging
— Team member engagement and development

Our financial resources..................................................................................................... 60
— Shareholder returns and capital markets strategy

Climate-related risks and opportunities disclosures summary ................................................ 63
Issues impacting value .......................................................................................................... 66

Management’s discussion and analysis ...................................................................................... 69
Reports on internal controls ...................................................................................................... 170
Consolidated financial statements ............................................................................................ 172
Board of directors..................................................................................................................... 222
Executives ................................................................................................................................ 223
Investor information ................................................................................................................. 224

aBout tHIS rEport

About this report

GRI 2-1, 2-2

This is our second Integrated annual report (referred to as “the report” or “this report”). In this report, “we”, “us”, “our”, “BCE” and “the
company” mean, as the context may require, either BCE Inc. or, collectively, BCE Inc., Bell Canada, their subsidiaries, joint arrangements and
associates. “Bell” means, as the context may require, either Bell Canada or, collectively, Bell Canada, its subsidiaries, joint arrangements
and associates.

Our approach to integrated reporting

GRI 2-3

Since 1993, BCE has been publishing a Corporate Responsibility Report
detailing our performance in managing environmental, social and
governance (ESG) issues. In 2022, for the first time, we presented
both our financial and non-financial performance in an Integrated
annual report following the principles of the International Reporting
Framework (the <IR> Framework), now part of the International

Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation. With this, we became the
first major North American communications company to issue
an integrated report(1). For more information on our corporate
responsibility performance, visit bce.ca/responsibility or contact
us at esg@bell.ca.

Reporting structure and reporting period GRI 2-3
This report includes the Strategic overview, the 2023 annual
Management’s discussion and analysis (BCE 2023 Annual MD&A)
and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 2023 (BCE 2023 Annual financial statements) of BCE Inc.
All amounts in this report are in millions of Canadian dollars, except
where noted. This report is dated March 7, 2024.
— The Strategic overview on pages 6 to 68 of this Integrated annual
report provides a summary of BCE’s value creation model. This
includes the strategy and performance highlights for the period
from January 1 to December 31, 2023, as at December 31, 2023.
There are topics with exceptions to this calendar-year timeframe.
Energy consumption, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and supplier
engagement performance are based on data from July 1 of the
previous year to June 30 of the reporting year. Energy savings
(including electric, hybrid and more fuel-efficient vehicles) and
circular economy performance are based on data from October 1
of the previous year to September 30 of the reporting year.
The Commission for Complaints for Telecom-television Services
(CCTS) report is from August 1, 2022 to July 31, 2023. The Key
Performance Indicator (KPI) for employee engagement is based
on results from the Bell Team Survey which ran from September 11
to 26, 2023.
— The Strategic overview has been prepared based on the principles
set out in the <IR> Framework. We believe this approach provides a
useful basis for disclosing how we seek to create sustained value
for our stakeholders over time. Integral to the <IR> Framework
are the six forms of “capital” (Our networks, Our customers and
relationships, Our products and services, Our environment,
Our people and Our financial resources) that serve as inputs to
value creation. BCE introduces its capitals within our value creation
model (page 25) and references them using icons throughout the
Strategic overview and the BCE 2023 Annual MD&A to demonstrate
how each capital links to our strategy, value creation and risk
management.

— Pages 72 to 169 of this Integrated annual report present the BCE
2023 Annual MD&A, which comments on our business operations,
performance, financial position and other matters for the years
ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022.
— Pages 172 to 221 of this Integrated annual report present
the BCE 2023 Annual financial statements comprised of the
consolidated statements of the financial positions of BCE Inc.
and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 2023 and December 31,
2022, the related consolidated income statements, statements of
comprehensive income, changes in financial position, equity, cash
flows and the related notes.

Reporting criteria
The sustainability information included in this Integrated annual report
has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) Standards. These standards guide the identification of pertinent
issues and their impact on both enterprise value, and on society and
the environment. We also support the Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures’ (TCFD) recommendations, which are designed
to help companies provide better information to support informed
capital allocation. We provide a summary of our TCFD disclosures
on pages 63 to 65 and we address the 11 TCFD recommendations in
our 2023 BCE Climate action report. Furthermore, we measure and
report on select Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) metrics. As a signatory
to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2006, we report
our progress in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and
anti-corruption. This report describes the actions we have taken to
implement the UNGC guidelines and principles, and serves as our
Communication on Progress (COP). Bell is developing a roadmap to
increase its alignment to the recently promulgated IFRS Sustainability
Disclosure Standards in future reports.

(1) As of March 2, 2023, Bell’s review of publicly available information for North American communications and telecommunications companies indicated Bell was the first of its North American
communications and telecommunications competitors to publish an Integrated annual report based on the Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework.

2

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

2020 to 2022 gHg emissions
Our 2020, 2021 and 2022 scope 3 emissions have been restated
following a change in the calculation methodology. The previous
database used for GHG emissions calculations from expenditures has
been replaced by the factors in the U.S. CPE – US EnvironmentallyExtended Input-Output (USEEIO) model. This update affects
categories 1, 2, 4 and 15 in scope 3. The impact of this recalculation
is a decrease in upstream and downstream indirect emissions
(scope 3) of 2.6% in 2020, 4.7% in 2021 and 3.4% in 2022.

Format

2020, 2021 and 2022 lost time
accident frequency rate

This Integrated annual report is available online in English and French.
The PDF file is accessible on a standard computer screen, and by most
screen readers used by the visually impaired. The document is also
mobile-friendly. We strive to make information relevant to our target
audiences accessible in this report and via hyperlinks to additional
documents available on our website. To request this document in
an alternative format, please send a request via this online form.

This year, we introduced improved reporting that enables us to
capture only employee-worked hours, no longer including paid
time off, in our frequency base. Although the change impacted
our frequency rate for previous year results (from 1.11 to 1.20 (+8%)
in 2022, from 1,10 to 1,24 (+13%) in 2021 and from 1.15 to 1.31 (+14%) in
2020), it more accurately reflects the injury rates of our employees
while physically at work.

ESG and sustainability data verification

Revised targets

GRI 2-5

The content of the Strategic overview portion of our Integrated
annual report and all referenced web pages and complementary
reports have been reviewed and approved by Bell directors and vice
presidents who are members of the Corporate Responsibility Board,
which has the responsibility, among others, to embed corporate
responsibility considerations into corporate and business unit
strategies, in accordance with our Certification Procedures related
to ESG Disclosures.

GRI 2-4

network reliability
Network reliability – Fibre-to-the-home (FTTH): Maintain network
reliability above 99.99%. In 2022, the Network reliability metric was
based on the entire Internet network (FTTH and N-FTTH). In 2023 the
network KPI changed for FTTH only.

Customer experience

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) has performed a limited assurance
engagement for select ESG metrics. The results are documented in a
limited assurance statement available in the Responsibility section of
our bce.ca website.

We have moved from a target that aims to reduce the number of Bell
complaints accepted by the CCTS, to a target that aims to reduce the
overall percentage of Bell complaints to the CCTS.

Restated data

We aim to divert 100% of generated hazardous waste to certified
recyclers by the end of 2024. Our target was originally to have this
completed by the end of 2023, but we are now aiming to complete
it in 2024.

GRI 2-4

2022 network reliability
We restated the 2022 network reliability data to reflect a change on
how we measure this metric (see Revised target below). The impact of
this change is a 0.3 basis points of variation, from 99.9955% reported
last year to 99.9952% based on 2023 methodology.

2022 Capital research and
development expenditures
Our 2022 capital research and development (R&D) expenditure
has been restated from $587M to $615M as costs in-scope were
reassessed as part of ongoing Scientific Research and Experimental
Development (SR&ED) activities.

2021 and 2022 e-waste recovery
Our 2021 and 2022 e-waste recovery data for mobile phones has
been restated to include our Device Return Option collection stream.
This will result in an increase of 620 mobile phones in 2021, and
17,436 mobile phones in 2022.

aBout tHIS rEport

Throughout the Strategic overview, visual indicator tags for GRI and
SASB have been integrated to allow stakeholders to identify where
information relating to specific disclosure standards is presented. In
addition, we have provided indices (GRI, SASB, UNGC, SDG and World
Economic Forum) detailing how we respond to each standard, which
are available in our ESG data summary. Some metrics disclosed
within the Strategic overview do not specifically align with the named
reporting standards, but rather have been developed internally by
Bell to communicate the value created for stakeholders through our
progress on a number of ESG initiatives.

Hazardous waste

gender diversity in executive representation
We maintain a target of 35% representation of gender diversity in
executive positions. As of July 2023, we extended the date to achieve
this goal to the end of 2025. Notably, we have successfully met our
2022 Catalyst Accord and 30% Club commitments(1), achieving over
30% representation. Given these accomplishments, we consider the
target reasonable, and the revised timeline aligns with our broader
commitment and strategy.

New metrics and targets
our networks
Network coverage and accessibility – Wireline: Expand our pure fibre
footprint to 8.3 million locations by the end of 2025.

(1) The Catalyst Accord 2022 calls on Canadian boards and CEOs to pledge to accelerate the advancement of women in business through these actions: Increase the average percentage
of women on boards and women in executive positions in corporate Canada to 30% or greater by 2022.

3

aBout tHIS rEport

Explanation of certain climate-related terms,
metrics and targets
greenhouse gas (gHg) emissions
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) defines GHG
as gases in the atmosphere that absorb and emit radiation at specific
wavelengths. This causes an increase in temperature also known
as the greenhouse effect. The main GHGs are carbon dioxide (CO2),
methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O), but there are other GHGs,
such as sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), and
perfluorocarbons (PFCs). The commonly used unit to measure GHG
emissions is tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e). To calculate the GHG
emissions in tCO2e, the individual Global Warming Potential (GWP)
of GHG must be considered. All GHGs have different characteristics
that give them a specific lifetime in the atmosphere and radiation
absorption properties. The GWP examines these characteristics for
the emission of a unit of each gas and compares it to the emission of
a unit of CO2. The larger the GWP, the more that a given gas warms the
Earth compared to CO2 within the same timeframe. The IPCC provides
GWP values that are used across countries and industries in order to
have a unified factor for GHG emissions accounting and comparison.

Scope 1, 2 and 3 gHg emissions
Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are
controlled by Bell. Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions
associated with the consumption of purchased electricity, heating/
cooling and steam required by Bell’s activities. Scope 1 and 2 emissions
are sometimes collectively referred to in this report as “operational
emissions”. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included
in scope 2) that occur in our value chain, including both upstream
and downstream emissions.
By definition, GHG emissions from scope 3 (upstream and downstream
indirect emissions) occur from sources owned or controlled by other
entities in Bell’s value chain (such as our suppliers, employees and
customers). As a result, measuring scope 3 emissions is more complex
than measuring scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, for which we are able to
obtain primary data (such as litres of fuel consumed within our vehicle
fleet and kilowatt-hours of electricity consumed within our buildings).
For scope 3 categories for which primary data is not available, we have
to rely on secondary data (such as financial data and industry-average
data from published databases). These data collection challenges
contribute to uncertainty in scope 3 emissions measurement.

Carbon abatement ratio
Many Bell technological solutions enable our customers to reduce
their GHG emissions by optimizing transport, energy use and
asset operations. Audio, video and web conferencing, teleworking,
cloud computing, e-billing, e-learning, energy management, fleet
management and tank monitoring are some examples. To understand
the carbon abatement impact of our solutions we have worked
with Groupe AGECO, a third-party consultant with expertise in GHG
emissions quantification, to develop a methodology that estimates
the carbon reduction capacity of our products and services used
by our customers. These estimated benefits are calculated using
the carbon abatement ratio, which represents the GHG emissions
estimated to have been avoided by Bell’s clients through the use of
our technological solutions in comparison to our own operational
(scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions. To do so, GHG emissions are estimated
in a business-as-usual case where carbon reduction technology
is not used compared to the case where Bell’s solutions are used.
The avoided GHG emissions correspond to the difference between
the emissions estimated to have been generated in a business-as­
usual case compared to the case where Bell’s technological solutions
are used. The emissions generated by Bell in providing solutions to
customers are not deducted from the total carbon abatement of
solutions, but are included in our operational emissions. Only the
benefits resulting from technologies deployed to Bell’s clients are
considered, i.e., environmental benefits associated with solutions
implemented within Bell’s own operations are not included. An
example of how the calculations were made is provided below:
Business-as-usual
scenario

Physical meeting in one room between
two or more participants, including the
transportation to the meeting location

Bell’s solution

Virtual meeting through a cloud-hosted
platform with integrated video and
audio conferencing, online presentations,
shared applications and group document
editing. Users can share their entire
or part of their desktop, or a specific
application with a small group of people

Carbon abatement

GHG emissions avoided from business
travel for a meeting due to the use of
Bell’s web conferencing solution

The calculation method of the carbon abatement ratio is based
on existing methodologies developed in the Information and
Communications Technology (ICT) sector. The calculation, as shown
below, is based on assumptions that are dependent on customers’
behaviour over which Bell has no control.

Carbon abatement ratio =

4

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

GHG emissions (business as
usual case) – GHG emissions
(using Bell’s solutions case)
Bell’s total operational
GHG emissions (scope 1 & 2)

The SBTi has approved our three science-based targets in 2022:

We will measure our carbon neutrality performance based on our
operational GHG emissions (scope 1 and scope 2 emissions in tonnes
of CO2e) minus GHG emissions offset by carbon credits purchased
(in tonnes of CO2e). To be carbon neutral, the total must be equal to
zero or lower.

— Reduce our absolute operational GHG emissions (scope 1 and 2) 58%
by 2030, from a 2020 baseline year – in line with a 1.5°C trajectory.

In order to achieve our target of carbon neutral operations starting
in 2025, we expect that we will need to purchase a significant amount
of carbon credits to offset our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions that will
not have been avoided by internal initiatives, in addition to renewable
energy certificates (RECs) to reduce our scope 2 emissions. In 2023,
our scope 1 and 2 emissions represented 12% of our total carbon
footprint. Our target for carbon neutral operations excludes our
scope 3 emissions which represented 88% of our carbon footprint
in 2023.

Science-based targets
Science-based targets provide a clearly-defined pathway for
companies to reduce GHG emissions, aiming to prevent the worst
impacts of climate change. Targets are considered ‘science-based’ if
they are in line with what the latest climate science deems necessary
to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement – limiting global warming to
1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. The Science Based Targets initiative
(SBTi) brings together a team of experts to provide companies with
independent assessment and validation of targets.

— Reach 64% of our suppliers by spend covering purchased goods
and services with science-based targets by 2026.
— Reduce our absolute scope 3 GHG emissions from all categories
other than purchased goods and services 42% by 2030, from a
2020 baseline year(1).

aBout tHIS rEport

Carbon neutrality

In 2022, we recalculated our science-based target for our scope 1
and 2 GHG emissions to reflect restated GHG emissions for our 2020
base year. The impact of this recalculation is a targeted reduction of
our absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions of 58% instead of 57% by
2030, from a 2020 baseline year. This recalculation does not impact
our other science-based targets covering scope 3 GHG emissions.
The recalculated target was submitted to the SBTi for approval on
October 20, 2023, with an approval expected in 2024.
Our science-based targets may need to be further adjusted in the
future because the SBTi requires that targets be recalculated (following
the most recent applicable SBTi criteria and recommendations) at a
minimum every five years, or more often if significant changes occur
(e.g., business acquisitions/divestitures).

net zero target
BCE’s carbon neutrality is different than, and independent of, the SBTi’s
net zero target. Net zero refers to the state in which an organization
reduces GHG emissions in its entire value chain (i.e., scope 1, 2 and 3
GHG emissions) to as close to zero as possible (with a minimum
reduction of at least 90%) and neutralizes(2) any remaining emissions
such that its net global GHG emissions balance to zero. At the moment,
BCE does not have a net zero target.

(1) Scope 3 categories covered by this target exclude indirect scope 3 GHG emissions from our purchased goods and services which represented 66% of our carbon footprint in 2023,
and include GHG emissions from capital goods, fuel and energy-related activities, upstream transportation and distribution, waste generated in operations, business travel, employee
commuting, downstream transportation and distribution, use of sold products, end-of-life treatment of sold products, franchises and investments.
(2) According to SBTi, neutralize means that carbon is removed from the atmosphere and permanently stored in geological, terrestrial, or ocean reservoirs, or in products.

5

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Caution regarding forward-looking statements

Strategic overview
Caution regarding forward-looking statements
This Strategic overview contains forward-looking statements
including, without limitation, statements relating to BCE’s dividend
growth objective, 2024 annualized common share dividend and
dividend payout ratio level, and dividend payout policy target, BCE’s
anticipated capital expenditures, network deployment plans and the
benefits expected to result therefrom, our transformation initiatives
and restructuring and the benefits expected to result therefrom,
our ESG objectives and the benefits expected to result therefrom
(which include, without limitation, our objectives concerning diversity,
equity, inclusion and belonging (DEIB), customer experience, energy
savings, circular economy and waste reduction, community
investment, privacy and information security, network reliability,
corporate governance and ethical business conduct leadership,
reductions in the level of our GHG emissions including, without
limitation, our carbon neutrality (scope 1 and 2 only) target and our
science-based targets, and our carbon abatement objectives), the
expected impacts on our company of various climate-related events,
business opportunities that could result from climate change, BCE’s
business outlook, objectives, plans and strategic priorities, and other
statements that do not refer to historical facts. A statement we make
is forward-looking when it uses what we know and expect today to
make a statement about the future. Forward-looking statements are
typically identified by the words assumption, goal, guidance, objective,
outlook, project, strategy, target, commitment and other similar
expressions or future or conditional verbs such as aim, anticipate,
believe, could, expect, intend, may, plan, seek, should, strive and will.
All such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe
harbour provisions of applicable Canadian securities laws and of the
United States (U.S.) Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Unless otherwise indicated by us, forward-looking statements in this
Strategic overview describe our expectations as at March 7, 2024
and, accordingly, are subject to change after that date. Except
as may be required by applicable securities laws, we do not
undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events
or otherwise. Forward-looking statements, by their very nature,
are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties and are based on
several assumptions, both general and specific, which give rise to
the possibility that actual results or events could differ materially
from our expectations expressed in, or implied by, such forwardlooking statements and that our business outlook, objectives, plans
and strategic priorities may not be achieved. These statements are
not guarantees of future performance or events, and we caution
you against relying on any of these forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are presented in this Strategic overview
for the purpose of assisting readers in understanding our objectives,
strategic priorities and business outlook as well as our anticipated
operating environment. Readers are cautioned, however, that such
information may not be appropriate for other purposes.

6

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

We have made certain economic, market, operational and other
assumptions in preparing the forward-looking statements contained
in this Strategic overview, which include, without limitation, the
assumptions described in this cautionary statement as well as in
the subsections of the BCE 2023 Annual MD&A entitled Assumptions,
which subsections are incorporated by reference in this cautionary
statement. Subject to various factors, we believe that our assumptions
were reasonable at March 7, 2024. If our assumptions turn out to be
inaccurate, actual results or events could be materially different
from what we expect.
Important risk factors that could cause actual results or events
to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the
previously-mentioned forward-looking statements and other
forward-looking statements contained in this Strategic overview,
include, but are not limited to, the risks described in this Strategic
Overview as well as in section 9, Business risks of the BCE 2023 Annual
MD&A, which section is incorporated by reference in this cautionary
statement.
Forward-looking statements contained in this Strategic overview for
periods beyond 2024 involve longer-term assumptions and estimates
than forward-looking statements for 2024 and are consequently
subject to greater uncertainty. They assume, unless otherwise
indicated, that the relevant assumptions and risks described in the
BCE 2023 Annual MD&A will remain substantially unchanged during
such periods.
We caution readers that the risk factors described in the previouslymentioned section and in other sections of the BCE 2023 Annual
MD&A are not the only ones that could affect us. Additional risks and
uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem
to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, liquidity, financial results or reputation.
We regularly consider potential acquisitions, dispositions, mergers,
business combinations, investments, monetizations, joint ventures
and other transactions, some of which may be significant. Except as
otherwise indicated by us, forward-looking statements do not reflect
the potential impact of any such transactions or of special items that
may be announced or that may occur after March 7, 2024. The financial
impact of these transactions and special items can be complex and
depends on facts particular to each of them. We therefore cannot
describe the expected impact in a meaningful way, or in the same
way we present known risks affecting our business.

Our GHG emissions reduction and supplier engagement targets are
based on a number of assumptions including, without limitation, the
following principal assumptions:
— Our ability to purchase a significant amount of high-quality credible
carbon credits and/or renewable energy certificates (RECs) to offset
or reduce, as applicable, our GHG emissions
— The carbon offset will be permanent and will not be reversed, in
whole or in part, prior to the date of our targets
— The successful and timely implementation of various corporate and
business initiatives to reduce our electricity and fuel consumption,
as well as reduce other direct and indirect GHG emissions enablers
— No new corporate initiatives, business acquisitions, business
divestitures or technologies that would materially change our
anticipated levels of GHG emissions
— No negative impact on the calculation of our GHG emissions from
refinements in or modifications to international standards or the
methodology we use for the calculation of such GHG emissions
— No required changes to our science-based targets pursuant to
the SBTi methodology that would make the achievement of our
science-based targets, as updated from time to time, more onerous
or unachievable in light of business requirements
— Sufficient supplier engagement and collaboration in setting
their own science-based targets, no significant change in the
allocation of our spend by supplier and sufficient engagement and
collaboration from the other participants across our whole value
chain in reducing their own GHG emissions
The achievement of our carbon neutrality target (which includes
only our operational GHG emissions (scope 1 and 2) and excludes
scope 3 GHG emissions) will require that we purchase a significant
quantity of carbon credits and/or RECs. Should a sufficient quantity
of high-quality credible carbon credits and/or RECs be unavailable,
should their cost of acquisition be considered too onerous, should
laws, regulations, applicable standards, public perception or
other factors limit the number of carbon credits or RECs that we
can purchase, should any purchased carbon credits be subject
to reversal, in whole or in part, or should the carbon offsets not
materialize, the achievement of carbon neutrality target could be
negatively impacted.

A portion of our GHG emissions reduction targets also depend on
our ability to implement sufficient corporate and business initiatives
in order to reduce GHG emissions to the desired levels. Failure to
implement such initiatives according to planned schedules due
to changes in business plans, our inability to implement requisite
operational or technological changes, unavailability of capital,
technologies, equipment or employees, cost allocations, actual costs
exceeding anticipated costs, or other factors, or the failure of such
initiatives, including of new technologies, to generate anticipated
GHG emissions reductions, could negatively affect our ability to
achieve our GHG emissions reduction targets. In addition, future
corporate initiatives, such as business acquisitions and organic
growth, could negatively affect our ability to achieve our targets, as
would the adoption of new technologies that are carbon enablers
or do not generate the anticipated energy savings.
A refinement in or modifications to international standards or to
the methodology we use for the calculation of GHG emissions that
would result in an increase in our GHG emissions could further
impact our ability to achieve our targets. In addition, as it relates
to our science-based targets specifically, the SBTi requires the
recalculation of our targets upon the occurrence of certain events,
such as business acquisitions or divestitures, or to conform to
evolving SBTi methodology or standards. A recalculation resulting
in the introduction of more ambitious targets could challenge our
ability to achieve such updated targets.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Caution regarding forward-looking statements

Assumptions and risk factors relating to GHG emissions
reduction and supplier engagement targets

The achievement of our science-based target relating to the level of
our suppliers by spend covering purchased goods and services that
have adopted science-based targets could be negatively impacted
should we fail to achieve the required level of engagement and
collaboration from our suppliers over which we have no control,
despite the engagement measures that we may implement, or should
we change significantly the allocation of our spend by supplier.
In addition, we have much less influence over the reduction of
our scope 3 GHG emissions than over our scope 1 and scope 2
GHG emissions given that we must rely on the engagement and
collaboration of our suppliers and other participants in our value
chain in reducing their own GHG emissions. Accordingly, failure
to obtain our suppliers’ and other participants’ engagement and
collaboration could adversely affect our ability to meet our scope 3
GHG emissions reduction target.

The achievement of our science-based target related to our scope 1
and 2 GHG emissions will require that we purchase a significant
quantity of RECs. To achieve this science-based target, only RECs will
be considered given that the SBTi standards do not enable carbon
credits to be used for this target. Should a sufficient quantity of
acceptable (according to the SBTi guidelines) RECs be unavailable,
should their cost of acquisition be considered too onerous, or should
laws, regulations, applicable standards, public perception or other
factors limit the number of RECs that we can purchase, in whole or
in part, the achievement of our science-based target related to our
scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions could be negatively impacted.

7

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Who we are

Who we are

GRI 2-6

Purpose and strategic imperatives
Bell’s purpose is to advance how Canadians connect with each other and the world.
As Canada’s largest communications company(1) we strive to create better customer experiences and make a positive
difference for all Bell stakeholders. We are proud to provide a wide range of reliable and innovative communications and
digital solutions that intersect with our customers’ daily lives – all powered by our world-class fibre and wireless networks.
By increasing the capacity and resiliency of our networks and delivering next-generation, future-ready communications technology, we keep
Canadians connected, informed, and entertained while enabling businesses to compete on the world stage.
By working together, we are striving to build a sustainable future for our common benefit, guided by our six strategic imperatives.

Strategic imperatives
Build the
best networks
Continuing to enhance our key competitive advantage
with a focus on delivering leading broadband fibre and
wireless networks in locations large and small.

Deliver the
most compelling content
Taking a unified approach across our media and distribution
assets to deliver the content Canadians want the most.

Operate with agility
and cost efficiency
Underscoring our focus on operational excellence and
cost discipline throughout every part of our business.

Drive growth with
innovative services
Leveraging our leading network technologies to
provide truly differentiated communications services
to Canadians and drive revenue growth.

Champion
customer experience
Making it easier for customers to do business with Bell at
every step, from sales to installation, to ongoing support.

Engage and invest in our people
and create a sustainable future
Strengthening our inclusive workplace culture, recognizing
that Bell’s success requires a dynamic and engaged
team that is committed to the highest ESG standards.

To learn more about our strategic imperatives and our progress to date, see section 2, Strategic imperatives
in the BCE 2023 Annual MD&A.

(1) Based on total revenue and total combined customer connections.

8

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

We believe our passion and the way we invest our time and money is making a positive difference. With a focus on
communications, information, entertainment, and innovation, we strive to make an impact.
We look to create a thriving, prosperous and more connected world by investing in our networks – the backbone of today’s digital economy – and
offering our advanced fibre and wireless networks to Canadians in locations large and small, from remote communities to the largest cities.
Aligned with these objectives, we have a year-round focus on mental health initiatives through Bell Let’s Talk, along with our environmental
sustainability programs, and a workforce engaged in the communities where they live and work.
We align our ESG practices to support our purpose to advance how Canadians connect with each other and the world.

Better
world
We are investing in a better tomorrow by
striving to minimize our environmental
footprint and working to achieve
science-based environmental targets.
As we pursue our purpose, our efforts
and the products and services we offer
help increase accessibility for all and
strengthen privacy safeguards.

Better
communities

GRI 203-1

Because we invest locally, we help
strengthen communities across the
country and contribute to Canada’s
prosperity. This includes our deployment
of reliable advanced broadband and
wireless networks, and delivery of relevant
and timely local news and entertainment
coverage across Bell Media radio and
television stations. Launched in 2010,
Bell Let’s Talk continues to drive positive
change in mental health.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Who we are

Bell for Better

Better
workplace
As one of Canada’s largest employers,
we support diversity, equity, inclusion
and belonging (DEIB) in our workforce
and promote a continuous growth
mindset. Our award-winning programs
and recognition culture aim to celebrate
the accomplishments of our team members
and increase employee engagement.

To learn more about the Bell for Better program and updates on our initiatives, visit the Bell for Better website.

9

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Who we are

Organizational overview

GRI 2-1, 2-6

BCE is Canada’s largest communications company(1), providing advanced Bell broadband Internet, wireless, TV, media and
business communications services to residential, business and wholesale customers for all their communications needs.
BCE’s shares are publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange (TSX, NYSE: BCE).
We are headquartered in Montréal, Québec, Canada.
Our results are reported in two segments: Bell Communication and
Technology Services (CTS) and Bell Media.

Leading the way in broadband
and media innovation

BCE’s business segments

Bell leverages the power of our world-class fibre and wireless
networks to deliver a wide range of innovative products and services
to consumers, businesses and government customers across Canada.
These include mobile data and voice plans for our 4G LTE, 5G and
5G+ wireless networks, Fibe Internet and TV, Wireless Home Internet,
residential and business voice services, cloud-based services,
security solutions, IoT and other business solutions.

At December 31, 2023

BCE

Bell Media is Canada’s leading content creation company(2) with premier
assets in television, radio, OOH and digital media. Bell Media partners
with advertisers to help connect brands to consumers through video,
audio, OOH and digital platforms, as well as through our advanced
advertising technology products.

Bell
CtS

Bell
Media

Bell CTS provides a wide range of communication products and
services to consumers, businesses and government customers across
Canada. Wireless products and services include mobile data and voice
plans and devices and are available nationally. Wireline products and
services comprise data (including Internet access, Internet protocol
television (IPTV), cloud-based services and business solutions),
voice, and other communication services and products, which are
available to our residential, small and medium-sized business and
large enterprise customers primarily in Ontario, Québec, the Atlantic
provinces and Manitoba, while satellite TV service and connectivity
to business customers are available nationally across Canada.
In addition, this segment includes our wholesale business, which buys
and sells local telephone, long distance, data and other services from
or to resellers and other carriers, as well as the results of operations of
our national consumer electronics retailer, The Source (Bell) Electronics
Inc. (The Source). Subsequent to year end, Bell Canada announced a
strategic partnership with Best Buy Canada to operate 165 The Source
consumer electronics retail stores in Canada, which will be rebranded
as Best Buy Express and offer the latest in consumer electronics from
Best Buy along with exclusive telecommunications services from Bell.
In addition, Bell will wind down The Source head office and back office
operations, as well as close 107 The Source stores.
Bell Media provides conventional TV, specialty TV, pay TV, streaming
services, digital media services, radio broadcasting services and
out-of-home (OOH) and advanced advertising services to customers
nationally across Canada. Revenues are derived primarily from
advertising and subscriber fees.

Ethical values supporting a healthy
and fulfilling workplace GRI 2-7
Bell is committed to fostering a healthy work environment where
every employee has opportunities to grow, make an impact and feel
like they belong. Our employees are bound by Bell’s Code of Business
Conduct, which outlines the core values and standards that team
members are expected to uphold and commit to on an annual basis.
At the end of 2023, our team consisted of 45,132 employees, an
increase of 522 employees, compared to the 44,610 employees at
the end of 2022, attributable to the acquisitions of three subsidiary
companies and external hires. In February 2024, Bell announced
a reduction of 4,800 positions across all levels of the company,
representing 9% of BCE’s total workforce. These numbers will be
reflected in the 2024 Integrated annual report.

2022 employees

2023 employees

13%

12%

44,610
87%

45,132
88%

Communication
and Technology
Services
Bell Media

BCE’s Board and management believe that strong corporate
governance practices contribute to superior results in creating and
maintaining shareholder value. That is why we continually seek to
strengthen our leadership in corporate governance and ethical
business conduct by adopting best practices and providing full
transparency and accountability to our shareholders. The Board
is responsible for the supervision of the business and affairs of the
Corporation.

(1) Based on total revenue and total combined customer connections.
(2) CRTC statistical analysis released annually confirms high levels of investment in Canadian content by Bell Media, including Canadian Programming Expenditures (CPE) and Canadian
Content Development (CCD) expenditures, including in the most recent analysis.

10

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Our
networks

Our customers
and relationships

Our products
and services

Our
environment

Our
people

Our financial
resources

99.9952% MyBell

$684M

MyBell app
named the Best
Telecommunication
Mobile app
6 consecutive
years (2)

Approximate
amount invested
in research and
development in
capital expenditures
in 2023

top 100
employer

$2.3B

Maintained a
network reliability
level of 99.9952%
during the year(1)

Sciencebased targets
Scope 1, 2 and 3
science-based
targets by
2026 and 2030
approved by SBTi(3)

Recognized as one
of Canada’s Top
100 Employers
for the 9th year
in a row(4)

86%

−6%

5.2×
×

Carbon neutral

awarded the
Excellence
Canada: order
of Excellence

Carbon neutral
operations (scope 1
and 2 only)
starting in 2025(3)

Added
sustainability-linked
pricing to $2.3B
securitization
program and
entered into our first
sustainability-linked
derivatives

29.5%

5G network covers
86% of the Canadian
population(1)

Decrease in
industry share
of complaints
accepted by the
Commission for
Complaints for
Telecom-television
Services

Bell technologies
enable GHG
abatement that
is 5.2 times Bell’s
operational
GHG emissions (3) (5)

633,000

$155M

38,400+

2,953,523 66%

3.1%

Hours of original
content produced
in 2023

E-waste customer
devices recovered
in 2023(1)

Common share
dividend increase
for 2024

We expanded our
pure fibre network
to an additional
633,000 homes and
businesses in 2023 (1)

Bell expects to
reach its total
current commitment
of $155 million to
Canadian mental
health by 2025

142%

$70M

45%

This year, we
observed a 142%
increase in reported
phishing simulations
from fully trained
employees

Spent $70M with
certified diverse
suppliers

of all Englishlanguage
entertainment
programs
commissioned are
led by BIPOC or
creatives from other
equity-seeking
communities

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Who we are

BCE 2023 at a glance

Shareholder return
from 2019 to 2023(7)

for Mental Health at
Work for workplace
mental health
program and
results(6)

Black,
Indigenous and
persons of
Colour (BIpoC)
representation
among new grad
and intern hires(1) (8)

ISo 14001
& 50001
Environmental
& Energy
Management
Systems
ISO-certified

73%

$5.8B

Overall team
member
engagement score(1)

BCE’s balance sheet
is supported by a
healthy available
liquidity position
of $5.8 billion at
the end of 2023(9)

(1) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.
(2) In August 2023, Bell Canada’s “MyBell App’’ was recognized as Best Telecommunication Mobile Application at the MobileWebAwards, hosted by the Web Marketing Association (WMA).
This award recognizes the individual and team achievements of web professionals all over the world who create and maintain outstanding mobile websites and mobile applications.
(3) For more information on these targets and metrics, including related risks and assumptions, please refer to “About this report” and to the sections of this Strategic overview entitled
“Caution regarding forward-looking statements”, “Our products and services – Contributing to a better world through our products and services” and “Our environment – Climate change”.
(4) Bell was recognized as one of “Canada’s Top 100 Employers” in the years 2016 to 2024 by Canada’s Top 100 Employers, an editorial competition organized by Mediacorp Canada Inc., a
publisher of employment periodicals. Winners are evaluated and selected based on their industry leadership in offering exceptional workplaces for their employees. Employers are
compared to others in their field to determine which offers the most progressive and forward-thinking programs.
(5) The quantification of Bell’s carbon abatement ratio is based on 2020 data.
(6) Excellence Canada, an independent not-for-profit corporation dedicated to advancing organizational performance across Canada, awarded Bell Canada the Order of Excellence for
Mental Health at Work. This certification recognizes Bell’s mental health at work best practices, benchmarked against world-class organizations, and the demonstrated impact of Bell’s
mental health focus over several years.
(7) Shareholder return is defined as the change in BCE’s common share price for a specified period plus BCE common share dividends reinvested, divided by BCE’s common share price
at the beginning of the period.
(8) 2023 BIPOC representation data for new grads and intern hires includes self-identification questionnaire data and recruitment diversity data.
(9) Available liquidity is a non-GAAP financial measure. It does not have any standardized meaning under IFRS. Therefore, it is unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by
other issuers. Refer to section 11, Non-GAAP financial measures, other financial measures and key performance indicators (KPIs) of the BCE 2023 Annual MD&A for more information
on this measure, including a reconciliation of available liquidity to cash as the most directly comparable IFRS financial measure.

11

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Who we are

Leadership and recognition
Leadership
At BCE, we believe that adhering to recognized frameworks helps our stakeholders better understand our efforts.
The following are the frameworks and standards we follow or support, as well as some indices in which we are listed.
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)
BBCE has been a signatory of the UNGC since 2006, embracing the 10 principles around Human Rights, Labour,
Environment and Anti-Corruption.
To learn more, see our ESG data summary.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
We have reported according to the GRI since 2012.
To learn more, see our ESG data summary.
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
We have reported according to the SASB since 2017.
To learn more, see our ESG data summary.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG)
We have been reporting on the UNSDG since 2015.
To learn more, see our ESG data summary.
International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB)
We support the ISSB and we are part of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
Sustainability Alliance, which supports the ISSB.
Integrated Reporting Framework (<IR>)
We follow the key principles of the (<IR>) Framework through our Integrated annual report by actioning on our
value creation model and capitals that drive value for all stakeholders.
Certified ISO 14001 for our Environmental Management System
Certified ISO 14001 for our Environmental Management System since 2009, the 15th consecutive year, and the
first communications company in North America to be certified(1).
Certified ISO 50001 for our Energy Management System
Certified ISO 50001 for our Energy Management System since 2020, the fourth consecutive year, and the first
communications company in North America to be certified(2).
Certified ISO 9001 for our Project Management
Certified ISO 9001 for our Project Management within our domains of Telecommunications, Information
Technology and other Emerging Technologies since 2000.
Science-Based Targets
We have three SBTi-approved science-based targets to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.
To learn more, see our Climate Change section in this Strategic overview(3).

(1) Our ISO 14001 certification covers Bell Canada’s oversight of the environmental management system associated with the development of policies and procedures for the delivery of
landline, wireless, TV and Internet services, broadband and connectivity services, data hosting, cloud computing, radio broadcasting and digital media services, along with related
administrative functions.
(2) Our ISO 50001 certification covers Bell Canada’s energy management program associated with the activities of real estate management services, fleet services, radio broadcasting and
digital media services, landline, wireless, TV and Internet services, connectivity, broadband services, data hosting and cloud computing, in addition to related general administrative
functions. Bell is the first communications company to be certified in North America.
(3) The Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi) has approved our three science-based targets in 2022. On October 20, 2023 we submitted our recalculated target for scope 1 and 2 for
reapproval.

12

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

We have reported on the TCFD since 2020.
To learn more, see our Climate-related risks and opportunities disclosures summary in this Strategic overview
and our Climate action report.

ISO/IEC 27001:2013
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

MSECB
CERTIFIED

Certified ISO and International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 27001
Certified ISO and International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 27001
Certified ISO and IEC 27001 for our information security management in our residential subsidiary operations,
Bell Technical Solutions, since 2019.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Who we are

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)

FTSE4Good Index Series
BCE is a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index Series, which is designed to identify companies that
demonstrate strong ESG practices measured against globally-recognized standards.

Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) ESG Prime
As of February 2024, BCE is rated as Prime according to ISS. Companies are categorized as Prime if they
achieve/exceed the sustainability performance requirements (Prime threshold) defined by ISS ESG for a specific
industry (absolute best-in-class approach) in the ESG Corporate Rating. The ISS ESG Prime logo serves as an
indicator of the quality of a company’s performance in the area of corporate responsibility.
Jantzi Social Index (JSI)
BCE is a constituent of the JSI, which was launched in partnership with Dow Jones Indices. It is a socially screened,
market capitalization-weighted common stock index modeled on the S&P/TSX 60 consisting of 50 Canadian
companies that pass a broad set of ESG criteria.
Euronext Vigeo World 120 index
BCE is a constituent of the Euronext Vigeo World 120 index. This index was developed by Euronext and composed
of the top 120 companies recognized for their outstanding ESG practices, selected from among the largest 1,500
companies in terms of market capitalization that are headquartered in Europe, the U.S., or the Asia-Pacific region.

To learn more about our partnerships in corporate responsibility, see our complementary report Our corporate responsibility approach.

13

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Who we are

Recognition
We were recognized by a variety of organizations for our initiatives in 2023:
Ookla Speedtest Awards: Canada’s fastest Internet and Wi-Fi
Bell pure fibre was awarded Canada’s fastest Internet and ranked fastest Wi-Fi in Ookla’s Speedtest Awards reports for
Q1-Q2 and Q3-Q4 2023.

BrandSpark: Canada’s Most Trusted High Speed Internet Service Provider
Voted most trusted High Speed Internet Provider brand by Canadian shoppers based on the 2023 BrandSpark
Canadian Trust Study.

Global Wireless Solutions (GWS): Canada’s best and fastest 5G network
For the second time in a row, Ookla ranked Bell’s pure fibre as Canada’s fastest Internet and Wi-Fi, and for the third
year in a row, GWS ranked Bell’s 5G as Canada’s fastest and best 5G network. New this year, GWS measured Canada’s
national 5G networks with 3500 MHz wireless spectrum, confirming that Bell’s 5G+ network is Canada’s fastest and best.
GWS conducts the most comprehensive drive test of wireless networks in Canada and reconfirmed that Bell’s network
outperforms all other national wireless networks.

Webby People’s Voice Award – MyBell App
The MyBell, Virgin Plus My Account and Lucky Mobile MyAccount mobile apps won a number of awards in 2023.
This includes the prestigious Webby People’s Voice Award for the MyBell app. The MyBell app was recognized from
among nearly 14,000 entries from over 70 countries, captivating users and industry experts with its unique combination
of innovative self-serve tools, such as machine learning-based Virtual Repair and Wi-Fi Checkup, along with sales and
account management capabilities.

Canada’s Top 100 Corporate R&D Spenders
Research InfoSource Inc., an independent R&D analyst firm, ranked Bell 7th on its 2023 list of Canada’s top 100 investors
in research and development based on dollars invested for 2022.

Corporate Knights: Canada’s Best 50 corporate citizens of 2023 – Rank 20
In June 2023, Corporate Knights, a sustainable-economy media and research company, ranked BCE 20th in Canada
overall, on its Best 50 Corporate Citizens list. The annual Corporate Knights ranking evaluated 332 of the largest
Canadian companies on a set of 25 ESG indicators to single out the Best 50 that Corporate Knights considers “the
vanguard of corporate sustainability leadership in Canada.”

Corporate Knights: Global 100 2024 – Rank 51
In January 2024, Corporate Knights ranked BCE 51st overall, and first in our sector and industry, in its 2024 ranking
of the World’s 100 Most Sustainable Corporations. The ranking is based on an assessment of more than 6,000 public
companies with revenue over US$1 billion. All companies are scored on applicable metrics relative to their peers, with
50% of the weight assigned to sustainable revenue and sustainable investment.

Corporate Knights: Clean200 – Rank 65
In February 2023, Corporate Knights and As You Sow ranked Bell 65th on 2023 annual Clean200 list, ahead of our
Canadian telecom competitors. The ranking is based on an assessment of more than 6,200 global firms which are
evaluated based on their clean revenues and screened against social and environmental criteria. The Clean200 list
highlights companies that are leading the energy transition, and place sustainability at the core of their business.

CDP: within “Leadership Band” for 8th year in a row (A- score)
In 2023, Bell obtained an A- score from the CDP (formerly known as the Climate Disclosure Project), ranking us in the
“Leadership Band” for the eighth consecutive year. CDP thus recognizes our leadership on climate action, our alignment
with current best practices and the transparency of our climate-related disclosures. CDP is a non-profit organization
that gathers information on climate-related risks and opportunities from organizations worldwide.

Clean50: Top Projects 2024
Bell’s halocarbon free, energy-efficient computer room cooling project was named a 2024 Clean50 Top Project award
winner. The Clean50 Top Projects awards are primarily managed by Delta Management Group. The awards annually
recognize projects completed in the prior two years based on their innovation, and their ability to inform and inspire
Canadians.

14

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

In December 2022, Excellence Canada, an independent not-for-profit corporation dedicated to advancing organizational
performance across Canada, awarded Bell Canada the Order of Excellence for Mental Health at Work. This certification,
issued every two years, recognizes Bell’s mental health at work best practices, benchmarked against world-class
organizations, and the demonstrated impact of Bell’s mental health focus over several years.

Canada’s Top 100 Employers for 9th year in a row
Bell was recognized as one of “Canada’s Top 100 Employers” in the years 2016 to 2024 by Canada’s Top 100 Employers,
an editorial competition organized by Mediacorp Canada Inc., a publisher of employment periodicals. Winners are
evaluated and selected based on their industry leadership in offering exceptional workplaces for their employees.
Employers are compared to others in their field to determine which offers the most progressive and forward-thinking
programs.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Who we are

Excellence Canada: Order of Excellence for Mental Health at Work

Canada’s Top Family-Friendly Employers for 5th year in a row
Bell was recognized as one of “Canada’s Top Family-Friendly Employers” in the years 2020 to 2024 by Canada’s
Top 100 Employers. Winners are evaluated and selected based on the programs and initiatives offered to help
employees balance work and family commitments, when compared to other employers in the same field.

Montréal’s Top Employers for 12th year in a row
Bell was recognized as one of “Montréal’s Top Employers” in the years 2013 to 2024 by Canada’s Top 100 Employers.
Winners are evaluated and selected based on progressive and forward-thinking programs offered in a variety of areas,
when compared to other organizations in the same field.

Bell Technical Solutions receives 2023 Employment Equity Achievement Award –
Recognized for leadership in equity and diversity
Bell Technical Solutions (BTS) was recognized by the Minister of Labour and Seniors for its Outstanding Commitment to
Employment Equity as part of the 2023 Employment Equity Achievement Awards. The award honours companies that
have demonstrated leadership in the implementation of their equity plans to remove employment barriers, as well as
adopt special measures and accommodations to correct underrepresentation of people in designated groups.

Canada’s Top Employers for Young People for 7th year in a row
Bell was recognized as one of “Canada’s Top Employers for Young People” in the years 2018 to 2024 by Canada’s
Top 100 Employers. Winners are evaluated and selected based on the programs offered to attract and retain young
employees, when compared to other employers in the same field.

Canada’s Greenest Employers for 7th year in a row
Bell was recognized as one of “Canada’s Greenest Employers” in the years 2017 to 2023 by Canada’s Top 100 Employers.
Winners are evaluated and selected based on the development of sustainability initiatives and environmental leadership,
when compared to other employers in the same field.

WBE Canada’s 2023 Top Corporation in Supplier Diversity
In November 2023, Bell was recognized as one of the top corporations in supplier diversity by the Women Business
Enterprises Canada Council (WBE Canada). The award honours companies that have created opportunities for Women
Business Enterprises (WBEs) in their supply chains and are helping drive Canada’s economic recovery and growth.

15

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Who we are

Our financial performance
Financial and operational highlights
The Bell team provided communications technologies in 2023 that enhanced the connectivity of Canadians.
These connections form the foundation for BCE’s long-term success.

7.4%

3.1%

16

Dividend yield
in 2023(1)

Increase in dividend
per common share
for 2024

Consecutive years
of dividend growth

2023 financial performance

Actual

Target

Revenue growth †

2.1%

1% to 5%

Adjusted EBITDA(2) growth †

2.1%

2% to 5%

(20.5%)

Not applicable

Capital intensity(3)

18.6%

19% to 20%

Net earnings per share (EPS) growth †

(23.5%)

Not applicable

Adjusted net earnings per share (adjusted EPS) (2) growth †

(4.2%)

(7%) to (3%)

Cash flows from operating activities growth †

(5.0%)

Not applicable

Free cash flow (2) growth †

2.5%

2% to 10%

Net earnings growth †

† Compared to 2022.
(1) Annualized dividend per BCE common share divided by BCE’s share price at the end of the year.
(2) Adjusted EBITDA is a total of segments measure, adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP ratio and free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. These financial measures do not have any
standardized meaning under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Therefore, they are unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other issuers. We define
adjusted EPS as adjusted net earnings per BCE common share. Refer to section 11, Non-GAAP financial measures, other financial measures and key performance indicators (KPIs) of
the BCE 2023 Annual MD&A for more information on these measures including, in the case of adjusted EBITDA, a reconciliation to net earnings as being the most directly comparable
IFRS financial measure and for free cash flow, a reconciliation to cash flows from operating activities as being the most directly comparable IFRS financial measure.
(3) Capital intensity is defined as capital expenditures divided by operating revenues.

16

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Bell team members continue to champion the customer experience as we deliver advanced networks,
technology services and compelling content to individuals, families, communities, businesses and
governments across Canada. Our strong focus on the resiliency and capacity of our world-class fibre
broadband, television and wireless services and making it easier to do business with Bell enabled solid
subscriber growth in retail Internet, Internet Protocol television (IPTV) and wireless in 2023.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Who we are

Connecting Canadians with advanced technology services and media

24.72M
Total Bell consumer,
business and wholesale
customer connections

BCE retail subscribers (millions)

2023

2022

Change

Mobile phone(1)

10.29

9.95

3.4%

Mobile connected device(1)

2.73

2.45

11.4%

Internet (2)(3)(4)(5)

4.47

4.26

5.0%

IPTV (2) (3) (5)

2.07

1.99

4.1%

Satellite TV (2)

0.65

0.76

(14.2%)

Residential telephone services (2) (3) (5) (6)

2.02

2.19

(7.7%)

Total

22.24

21.60

3.0%

(1) In Q1 2023, we adjusted our mobile phone and mobile connected device subscriber bases to remove older non-revenue generating business subscribers of 73,229 and 12,577, respectively.
(2) Excludes wholesale customers.
(3) In Q2 2023, our Internet, IPTV and residential telephone services subscriber bases increased by 35,080, 243 and 7,458 subscribers, respectively, as a result of small acquisitions.
(4) In Q1 2023, subsequent to a review of customer account records, our Internet subscriber base was reduced by 7,347 subscribers.
(5) In Q4 2022, as a result of the acquisition of Distributel, our Internet, IPTV and residential telephone services subscriber bases increased by 128,065, 2,315 and 64,498 subscribers, respectively.
(6) Excludes business telephone services.

17

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Message from the Chair of the Board

Message from the Chair of the Board

GRI 2-22

This year, we connected even more
Canadians to our leading fibre
and wireless networks – critical to
Canada’s innovation pipeline and
future economic growth.

gordon M. nixon
Chair of the Board
BCE Inc.

Transformation driving value for the BCE group of companies
Bell’s purpose is to advance how Canadians connect with each
other and the world. We are proud that through our world-class
fibre and wireless networks, people are able to connect with
one another, be productive, and stay informed and entertained
each and every day.

This year, we expanded our reach, connecting even more
Canadians to our leading fibre and wireless networks – critical
to building Canada’s innovation pipeline and future economic
prosperity for people, businesses and communities.
We are committed to enhancing customer experiences by
simplifying interactions through digital solutions for both
our residential and enterprise clients, all while driving cost
efficiency.
Bell Media continues to deliver some of Canada’s most
compelling entertainment, sports and news content.
Understanding Canadians’ shifting media consumption habits,
we continue to pivot toward digital-first media experiences to
meet the dynamic needs of our audiences.

18

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

To continue delivering on our purpose in the future, this year,
Bell embarked on a transformation journey from a traditional
telecommunications company to a technology services and
digital media leader. By exploring new and emerging areas of
growth, we are crafting a roadmap for resiliency in the context
of a complex and rapidly-changing environment.

Bell for Better
We recognize that our impact and reach as a company goes
far beyond our core communications and media businesses.
As one of Canada’s largest companies, we have an important
role to play in building better communities and a better future.
Bell continues to make strides in reducing its environmental
footprint. We are focused on our efforts to meet our ambitious
emissions reduction targets and we continue to work to build
upon our environmental protection efforts.

Our dedication to mental health awareness is delivering real
results. Since 2010, Bell Let’s Talk has become the world’s
largest conversation about mental health, and Bell expects
to reach its current mental health funding commitment
of $155 million by the end of 2025.
In April 2023, after extensive consultation with persons with
disabilities, we launched the first company-wide accessibility
plan. This plan will allow BCE to identify, prevent and remove
barriers to accessibility in support of the principles set out in
the Accessible Canada Act.
Our progress in contributing to a better world has not gone
unnoticed. Early in 2024, Corporate Knights named Bell the
most sustainable communications company in the world in its
Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations ranking.
Mediacorp ranked us one of Canada’s Top 100 Employers
for the ninth year in a row, and Bell Technical Solutions was
honoured with an Outstanding Commitment to Employment
Equity award by Employment and Social Development Canada.

Shareholder returns
I am pleased by the progress we made in 2023. Our performance
underscores the critical importance of balancing near-term and
long-term priorities to deliver for our shareholders, positioning
us to seize upon future opportunities for growth.
In 2024, we are increasing our common share dividend by 3.1% to
$3.99 effective with the Q1 2024 payment on April 15, 2024. This is
our 16th consecutive year of uninterrupted dividend growth.

Board update
The BCE Board continues to uphold the strongest principles of
governance excellence. As Chair, I am immensely proud that
we were ranked the fourth best-managed corporate board in
Canada by the Globe & Mail for 2023.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Message from the Chair of the Board

In 2024, we are increasing our common share dividend by 3.1% to $3.99
effective with the Q1 2024 payment on April 15, 2024. This is our 16th
consecutive year of uninterrupted dividend growth.

In November 2023, we welcomed Johan Wibergh as a director on
the BCE Board. Johan brings extensive experience as the former
Chief Technology Officer of Vodafone and as former EVP & Head
of Business Unit Networks for Ericsson. His leadership and
expertise will fortify our transformational journey.

The road ahead
Despite our success over the past year, challenges remain.
Regrettably, recent decisions from the federal regulator are
already having a negative impact on our future investment
in communities across our footprint. As we continue to connect
more Canadians, we need a public policy environment that
supports and encourages private investment in network
infrastructure.
In the year ahead, we will navigate the economic and
regulatory environments, while strengthening the pillars of
our transformation and executing on our strategic priorities.
On behalf of the Board, thank you to our shareholders.
I trust you share our confidence in the future direction of the
BCE group of companies as we continue on our transformation
journey to a technology services and digital media leader.

Gordon M. Nixon
Chair of the Board
BCE Inc.

19

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Message from the president and CEo

Message from the President and CEO

GRI 2-22

The Bell team takes pride in delivering
on our commitments – making
the necessary near-term decisions
to deliver for our shareholders,
while at the same time putting in place
the foundation that will position us
for long-term growth.

Mirko Bibic
President and
Chief Executive Officer
BCE Inc. and Bell Canada

Looking back on a year of progress,
looking forward to future opportunities
Bell’s purpose is to advance how Canadians connect with each
other and the world.

For 144 years, we have delivered on this purpose thanks to our
agility in the face of changing market dynamics and shifts in the
economic and regulatory environments, forging pathways to
greater innovation and progress.
Today, we are accelerating our transformation from a traditional
telecommunications company to a technology services and
digital media leader. We are charting new growth areas,
igniting opportunities for our customers, our communities,
our shareholders and our team members.
The Bell team takes pride in delivering on our commitments –
making the necessary near-term decisions to deliver for
our shareholders, while at the same time putting in place the
foundation that will position us for long-term growth.

Investing in our networks, delivering lower prices
Our capital expenditures totalled $4.58 billion in 2023.
Since 2020, Bell has invested nearly $19 billion to connect more
Canadians to our pure fibre network, expand the reach of our
5G and 5G+ wireless networks and enhance the reliability and
resiliency of our networks for customers.

20

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

In 2023, Bell expanded its pure fibre network by 633,000 home
and business locations, and we expanded 5G and 5G+ coverage
to 86% and 51% of the Canadian population, respectively.
Fuelled by our fibre footprint, we grew broadband Internet
market share faster than any of our peers over the last year.

We have accomplished all of this while offering greater
affordability for our customers. Over the last year, prices for
wireless and Internet services fell nationally, while the overall
cost of living increased.

Putting customers first
Bell outperformed other national service providers in the
2022–2023 Commission for Complaints for Telecom-television
Services (CCTS) annual report for the eighth consecutive year
with a 6% reduction in the overall share of complaints over
the previous year.
Bell continues to embrace cutting-edge digital solutions and
automation, redefining service excellence and driving cost
savings while giving customers greater control and flexibility
over how they purchase, access and make changes to their
services through the award-winning MyBell app. Our self-serve
Virtual Repair tool with Wi-Fi Checkup has reached a milestone
one million sessions.

Announced in early 2024, our partnership with Best Buy Canada
to rebrand 165 The Source stores to Best Buy Express brings
together Bell’s award-winning mobility and Internet offerings
with Best Buy’s leading consumer electronics retail expertise
to deliver the best of all worlds for Canadian consumers –
the latest milestone in our channel transformation strategy.
Our acquisition of FX Innovation and our collaboration with
ServiceNow, along with our relationships with the world’s leading
cloud providers and cybersecurity companies, are helping
to accelerate our transformation and enable us to be more
responsive to the evolving needs of our enterprise customers with
cloud-based services, workflow automation and security solutions.

The best content, live and on-demand
Bell Media continues to deliver some of the country’s mostwatched content in English and French – when, where and how
Canadians want it.
2023 was the most watched year in Crave’s history. We introduced
new ad-supported tiers and announced the distribution of Crave
on Amazon Prime Video Channels coming later in 2024.
We also signed a new long-term content agreement with Warner
Bros. Discovery, securing Crave’s place as the home of HBO and
Max content in Canada.
Our pending acquisition of OUTFRONT Media’s Canadian
operations will expand our presence in the out-of-home
advertising market once the transaction closes. Meanwhile,
advances in Addressable TV and Addressable Radio provide
a personalized experience to viewers and more value to
advertisers.
Bell Media’s transformation to a digital media company is a
necessary step in the face of challenging advertising market
conditions, competition from foreign streaming giants and
shifting consumer preferences. Our strategic shift to digital is
paying off; 35% of our media revenues are now from digital,
up from 14% just four years ago.

Driving community impact, building the best team
Our commitment to mental health awareness across Canada
continues. On Bell Let’s Talk Day and throughout the year,
we support mental health organizations providing care in their
communities. Notably, we committed $15 million to the Kids Help
Phone Feel Out Loud campaign to expand access to its e-mental

health services, and gifted $1 million to IWK Health in Halifax for a
dedicated mental health space in the children’s hospital’s emergency
department, in addition to other grants through our Bell Let’s Talk
Community Fund, Diversity Fund and Post-Secondary Fund.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Message from the president and CEo

Today, we are accelerating our transformation from a traditional
telecommunications company to a technology services and digital media leader.
We are exploring new areas of growth and new opportunities for our customers,
our communities, our shareholders and our team members.

Building a safe, supportive and inclusive workplace for our team
remains a priority. We offer unlimited mental health support
to our team members and, this year, expanded other benefits to
meet the changing needs of a modern workforce.

Looking ahead to 2024 and beyond
The future is not without challenges.
The Canadian and global economies are facing growing
headwinds with persistent high inflation and interest rates.
The CRTC decision to mandate access to Bell’s fibre network
in Québec and Ontario is already having an impact on our future
investment strategy. The implementation of a new broadcasting
framework is not happening fast enough as the industry
undergoes significant upheaval.
Moving forward, we will shift our focus away from highly-regulated
parts of our business. We have embarked upon a restructuring
effort to ensure our operating model and cost structure align
with customer expectations and our transformation objectives.
While this process is not an easy one, it is what we need to do to
become more agile in a rapidly-changing landscape.
In 2024, we will continue to invest in new areas of growth –
like cloud and security services and advanced advertising.
A successful transformation to a tech services and digital media
leader will allow us to remain competitive, deliver solid financial
results and position us for sustained growth moving forward.
This is where our focus is and where it will remain.
On behalf of the Bell team, thank you to our customers and
shareholders. Your support is integral to our success.

Mirko Bibic
President and Chief Executive Officer
BCE Inc. and Bell Canada

21

StratEgIC oVErVIEW External operating context
22

External operating context

GRI 2-6, 3-2

Macroeconomic and global trends play an important role in determining how our industry evolves. We strive to ensure
that our understanding of these trends informs our strategic imperatives and value creation process, and helps shape the
way we interact with our customers, team members, shareholders and society at large. The following is an examination
of these trends.
Trends

What they involve

Bell’s approach

5G network
infrastructure

The industry-wide expansion of 5G networks continues to
drive customer demand for the products and services this new
technology enables. Following full deployment over the next
few years, 5G capabilities will enhance the lives of Canadians with
new applications such as multi-access edge computing, immersive
video and gaming, remote telehealth and self-driving vehicles.

To learn more about our initiatives and
how we are integrating 5G considerations
into our business operations and priorities,
see the Our networks section in this
Strategic overview, and section 2.1, Build
the best networks, section 3.2, Business
outlook and assumptions and
section 5.1, Bell Wireless – Competitive
landscape and industry trends in the
BCE 2023 Annual MD&A.

Technological
evolution and
innovation

Telecommunication technology continues to evolve rapidly across
both the wireline and wireless fronts. Innovations across fibre
infrastructure, IoT and smart technology are meeting new demands
to deliver both societal and environmental benefits.

To learn more about our approach and
role in innovation, see the Our networks
and Our products and services
sections in this Strategic overview,
and sections 2.2, Drive growth with
innovative services and 3.2, Business
outlook and assumptions, in the BCE 2023
Annual MD&A.

Artificial intelligence
(AI)

Bell is committed to ensuring the responsible development
and use of AI technologies. Our responsible approach to the
development and use of AI aligns with Bell’s ethics, privacy, and
security requirements and broader ESG objectives. This will support
customer, employee, and other stakeholder confidence in this
important technology.

To learn more about how Bell is
addressing risks associated with AI
development and deployment, see our
Responsible artificial intelligence policy.

Bridging the
digital divide

Access to reliable and affordable high-speed Internet has become
a key driver of societal well-being. As such, there is a growing
determination by telecommunications providers, governments
and other organizations to improve the reliability of and access
to wireline and wireless services.

To learn more about how Bell is
addressing the digital divide through
increasing our network coverage and
reliability, see the Our networks and
Our customers and relationships sections
in this Strategic overview.

Energy consumption Consensus among the international scientific community is that
and climate change GHG emissions, especially CO2, are major contributors to climate
change. Companies across all industries should be focused on
helping fight climate change and safeguard against its threat
through mitigation, adaptation and resilience.

To learn more about how Bell is
identifying and seeking to manage its
climate-related risks and opportunities,
see the Risk management section of
our Climate action report. To read about
our climate-related initiatives, see the
Our environment section in this Strategic
overview, and to learn more about how
we are helping customers fight climate
change and adapt to its impacts, see the
Our products and services section in this
Strategic overview.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

What they involve

Bell’s approach

Privacy and
information
security

The increasing use of, and reliance on, digital systems, as well as
the importance of protecting personal information and privacy
in regard to wireless, Internet and media services has drawn
the attention of lawmakers and customers. Changes to privacy
laws have been proposed in a number of Canadian jurisdictions.
There has also been increased interest in, and scrutiny of, the use,
collection, and disclosure of personal information in Canada.

To learn more about our privacy and
information security practices, see
the Our networks and Our products
and services sections in this Strategic
overview.

Corporate
responsibility

Society, regulators, governments, employees and others have
heightened expectations concerning the role of companies
in society and the way in which they operate. This includes
incorporating ethical business practices and contributing to positive
socioeconomic impacts. Globally, many companies are showcasing
their approach to corporate responsibility through self-regulation
and the integration of social accountability within their business
models. The disclosure of corporate responsibility performance
is becoming extensively scrutinized by various stakeholders as they
expect consistent, factual and balanced information.

To learn more about our corporate
responsibility performance, read this
Strategic overview and the documents
available in the Responsibility section of
BCE’s website.

Diversity, equity,
inclusion and
belonging

Increasingly, investors, customers and employees expect
companies to demonstrate how they address DEIB to foster an
equitable workplace and contribute to a more equitable society.
Companies must actively identify and address inequality issues,
implement strategies that promote enhanced representation,
and disclose DEIB-related policies, objectives and performance.

To learn more about how Bell supports
DEIB in the workplace and through our
community initiatives, see the Our people
and Our customers and relationships
sections in this Strategic overview.

Regulatory

Increased federal regulation in both the telecommunications and
broadcasting areas of Bell’s business is having an impact on the
company’s external operating context. The CRTC’s decision to
mandate reseller access to Bell’s fibre network is already adversely
affecting continued investment in network expansion. The long
overdue implementation of a new broadcasting framework is
moving too slowly – putting our ability to fund Canadian content
and news at increased risk. In the meantime, foreign streaming
giants continue to operate on an uneven playing field with
traditional broadcasters.

To learn more about how the regulatory
environment affects network investment
and the funding of compelling content,
see the Our customers and relationships
and Delivering compelling, original
and meaningful content sections of the
Strategic overview.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW External operating context

Trends

23

StratEgIC oVErVIEW External operating context

Stakeholder engagement and key ESG topics
A key aspect of stakeholder engagement is establishing mechanisms
through which we can capture key internal and external stakeholder
opinions and input to support the mapping of priorities and
decision-making.
In 2023, we refreshed our latest corporate responsibility priority
assessment, conducted in 2021, by surveying stakeholders for their
opinion on the importance of corporate responsibility topics with the
greatest potential influence on BCE’s enterprise value, on society, and
on the environment. The stakeholders included customers of each of
our service lines, team members representing various geographies
and levels throughout BCE, investors, suppliers, governmental groups,
non-profit organizations, local and Indigenous community partners,
and academic institutions. To identify these stakeholders, we followed
the guidelines and standards of the GRI, as further outlined in the
complementary report Our corporate responsibility approach. This
survey is just one way in which we engage our stakeholders on an
annual basis.

GRI 2-29, 3-1, 3-2, 3-3

The results of the survey demonstrated that our value creation
model and our Bell for Better initiatives are aligned with the priorities
identified by our stakeholders, as seen in the table below. We have
further developed our disclosures on business ethics and ethical
media practices in response to stakeholder interest toward these
topics. Additionally, this assessment allowed us to identify an
emerging priority for stakeholders: biodiversity and ecosystems,
which will be further considered in the years to come. We plan to
repeat this exercise in the future to continue evaluating emerging
trends that create value for Bell as well as for society and the
environment.

Our corporate responsibility approach supports our corporate
strategy and policies throughout the organization. Through
stakeholder engagement and our own internal processes, we
monitor ESG issues and opportunities and set objectives for
priority issues to enhance sustainability performance.

This table illustrates the link between our Corporate Strategy and our priority ESG topics:
Capital

ESG topic
Our
networks

Our customers
and relationships

Our products
and services

Our
environment

Our
people

Our financial
resources

24

Target

Network coverage and reliability

✪

Data privacy

✪

Information security

✪

Customer service and satisfaction

✪

Community investment and partnerships

✪

Responsible procurement through suppliers

–

Business ethics

–

Bridging the digital divide

✪

Enabling transition to a low-carbon economy

✪

Ethical media practices

–

Producing original content

–

Climate change

✪

Energy management

✪

Circular economy

✪

Biodiversity and ecosystems

–

Diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging

✪

Team member well-being

✪

Team member engagement and development

✪

Sustainable financing

–

Build the
best networks

Drive growth with
innovative services

Deliver the
most compelling content

Champion
customer experience

Operate with agility
and cost efficiency

Engage and invest in our people
and create a sustainable future

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Strategic imperative

✪ Bell has set a target in
regard to this topic

Our value creation model

GRI 3-3

Using the principles of the Integrated Reporting Framework, we have developed a holistic view of our value creation process.
This view highlights the value we create for our stakeholders through our business operations, guided by our strategic
imperatives, and use of capitals. Our activities and initiatives relating to each capital are reported on the following pages.
Our
capitals
Our networks
Reliable, accessible
and affordable worldclass broadband fibre
and wireless networks.

Our customers
and relationships
Strong relationships
with customers,
communities
and suppliers.

Our products
and services
Innovative and
compelling products,
services and media
content addressing
societal demands.
Our environment
Responsible
environmental
management
throughout our
operations.

Our
strategy

Our
outcomes

Value
we create

How we
measure value

Purpose
BCE’s purpose is to advance
how Canadians connect with
each other and the world.

Powering Canada’s
prosperity
Connecting Canadians
with world-leading
technology to support
Canada’s growth
agenda, productivity and
leadership in innovation.

Connected
customers
through strong
trusted networks

– Network coverage
& reliability
– Data privacy and
information security

Through Bell for Better,
we demonstrate our
commitment to create a better
world, better communities
and a better workplace.
Every day, we are dedicated
to advance our purpose and
accelerate BCE’s transformation
from a traditional telco to a
tech services and digital media
leader by executing on our
six strategic imperatives:

Build the
best networks

Drive growth with
innovative services

Deliver the most
compelling content

Champion customer
experience

Our people
Skilled, engaged
and diverse team
members.

Our financial
resources
Capital from our
investors, returns
on our investments
and free cash flow
generated from
our operations.

Operate with agility
and cost efficiency

Engage and invest
in our people and create
a sustainable future

Operating environment
We operate in an evolving
environment influenced by trends
and presenting business risks
which we strive to manage under
a strong governance model.

Enabling better
experiences
Smart solutions and
partnerships that
champion customer
experience and
support community
resiliency and growth.
Enhancing opportunities
for Canadians
Providing the capabilities
and tools for consumers
and businesses to
thrive and prosper.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation

Value creation

– Customer
satisfaction
– Community
investment
(mental health)
– Supplier partnerships
aligned with our
values

Sustainable
society

Contributions to
environmental
sustainability
Minimizing environmental
impacts in our operations
through ambitious actions
towards prevention
and mitigation.

– Products and
services that enable
low-carbon economy
– Compelling content
and digital
transformation

– Greenhouse gas
emissions reduction
– Circular economy

An inclusive and
engaged workforce
A workplace where team
members know they can
have an impact, immerse
themselves in opportunities
and feel like they belong.

Thriving team
members

Financial growth
Ongoing investment in
our purpose and positive
returns to our investors.

Sustainable
investor returns
and strong capital
structure

– Team member
well-being and
engagement
– Diversity, equity,
inclusion and
belonging

– Revenue, adjusted
EBITDA and free cash
flow growth
– Liquidity
performance
– Dividend growth
– Sustainable financing

25

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our networks

Our networks
Our wireline and wireless networks, as well as our broadcasting services, keep Canadians connected, informed and
entertained. By providing the best network technologies, we power Canada’s prosperity and support the nation’s innovation
pipeline. Additionally, our focus on data privacy and information security supports the reliability of our networks.
Our purpose to advance how Canadians connect with each other
and the world is underpinned by our ability to provide robust
and reliable networks across our footprint and ensure continued
access to critical infrastructure.

Build the best
networks

Operate with agility
and cost efficiency

Champion customer
experience

How we monitor impact and progress:
2023
third-party
verification

2023
performance

YoY
change

86%

+4 percentage
points

PwC(2)

633,000

–26%(3)

PwC

New target: Wireline: Expand our pure fibre footprint
to 8.3 million locations by the end of 2025

–

New target

–

Network reliability

Revised target: Maintain network reliability level above
99.99% for FTTH(4)

99.9952%

-0.0003
percentage
points

PwC

Data privacy

0 unresolved well-founded privacy complaints(5) from
the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada
(OPCC)

0

No change

OPCC

90% of onboarded team members complete yearly
Be Cyber Savvy information security training

95%

+7 percentage
points

PwC

Improve year-over-year phishing simulation report rate

33%

+8 percentage
points

PwC

Align to ISO 27001 standard by the end of 2023

100%

+20 percentage
points

–

Topic

✪ Target
Wireless: Expand 5G network coverage to more than
85% of the Canadian population by the end of 2023(1)

Network coverage
and accessibility

Information security

Stable

Wireline: Expand our pure fibre footprint to
650,000 additional locations by the end of 2023

Decreasing

Improving

Trend

–

Achieved

To learn more about Our networks, please see the following links:
— Our networks web page
— ESG data summary

(1) Data valid as at December 31, 2023. Population data is based on the 2021 census conducted by Statistics Canada.
(2) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.
(3) The year-over-year change for this metric is consistent with our more modest fibre buildout target for 2023 compared to 2022.
(4) Bell’s network reliability refers to our high-speed FTTH Internet connection, FTTH stands for “Fibre-to-the-Home.” It refers to a type of broadband Internet connection technology that
uses fibre-optic cables to transmit data.
(5) A complaint is considered well-founded if the Information Commissioner concluded that one or more of the allegations in the complaint has merit.

26

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Advanced communications networks provide access to a broad spectrum of everyday activities for all Canadians. Today, Bell’s leading
network technologies are a key part of Canada’s 21st century infrastructure. Our networks provide consumers and businesses with
greater capabilities and new opportunities to connect, build and grow, while bridging the digital divide.

Our activities and outcomes
delivering the best networks in
Canada GRI 201-1, 203-1, 203-2
Delivering advanced communications services that help generate
a strong and sustainable future for all Canadians starts with
continuous network investment and innovation.
Since the beginning of 2020 through to the end of 2023 as part of its
capital expenditure program, Bell has invested nearly $19 billion in
our networks and expanded high-speed fibre Internet to 2.5 million
new homes and businesses across Atlantic Canada, Québec, Ontario
and Manitoba. Our significant investment in fibre Internet and
5G expansion has yielded continued strong subscriber momentum.
Fuelled by our fibre footprint, we grew broadband Internet market
share faster than any of our peers in 2023.
As part of our strategy to build resilient, future-ready networks
that meet customer demands, we continue to gradually transition
from our copper wire networks to pure fibre connections – widely
regarded as the best broadband technology in the world. The
decommissioning of copper networks enables us to offer customers
the fastest network in Canada, increasing efficiency and serving as
a platform for next-generation services.

Connecting cities and smaller
communities GRI 203-1, 203-2
Bell continued to bridge the digital divide, fully funding broadband
rollouts in communities large and small across our footprint.
The rollout of pure fibre Internet continued in communities large
and small in 2023. In Manitoba, Bell continued the expansion of fibre
Internet in the city of Winnipeg as well as in six rural communities,
including Winnipeg Beach, Blumenort, Ile des Chênes, Morris,
St. Adolphe and Ste. Anne, reaching more than 40,000 additional fibre
locations in the province this year. We also began expanding fibre
Internet access to homes and businesses in the Ontario communities
of Essex Centre and Harrow.

we had planned to invest in bringing high-speed fibre Internet to
hundreds of thousands of additional homes and businesses in rural,
suburban and urban communities. This reduction is in addition to Bell
investing $105 million less than planned in Q4 2023 as a result of the
CRTC’s decision. Prior to the decision, Bell’s near-term plan was to
build high-speed fibre to nine million locations by the end of 2025, and
as a result of the CRTC’s decision, we are now slowing the pace to a
near-term target of 8.3 million fibre locations by the end of 2025 and
capping fibre speeds at three gigabits-per-second.
Private sector investments in connectivity depend on the right public
policy conditions. The federal government can encourage network
infrastructure investment by enacting policies that support the
competitiveness of Canadian businesses, helping to reduce the digital
divide by enabling more households and businesses of all sizes to
access high-speed Internet services and addressing place-based
disparities that currently exist in this country.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our networks

Building Canada’s best networks

Separate from our fully-funded expansion, we continued to work
closely with governments on existing projects to bring broadband
access to remote and other hard-to-serve areas, including in rural
Ontario and in Newfoundland and Labrador with the Universal
Broadband Fund.

advancing wireless connectivity
Successive generations of wireless technologies continue to
change the way Canadians live, work and play.
Our LTE wireless network reached more than 99% of Canadians by
2020. Since then, we launched and expanded our 5G network in urban
and rural markets, reaching 86% of all Canadians by the end of 2023(1).
In 2023, Bell 5G wireless was ranked Canada’s fastest and best 5G
network by Global Wireless Solutions for the third consecutive year(2).

In addition to expanding our fibre network, we’re also offering faster
Internet speeds to customers. In 2023, we continued to expand
availability of multi-gigabit services across our footprint, offering
symmetrical Internet speeds of three gigabits-per-second (Gbps) to
6.5 million homes and businesses.
Bell’s network expansion over the past four years has brought
high-speed fibre Internet to hundreds of communities in Atlantic
Canada, Québec, Ontario and Manitoba. Despite this industry-leading
investment, more than five million locations in Bell’s footprint still do not
have access to fibre technology. In 2023, the Canadian Radio-television
and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) made the decision to
mandate Bell to sell wholesale access to our fibre networks in Ontario
and Québec. As a direct result of federal government policies and
the CRTC’s decision that discourages network investment, we intend
to reduce capital expenditures by over $1 billion over 2024 and 2025
combined, including a minimum of $500 million in 2024, money that
(1) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.
(2) Based on a third-party score (Global Wireless Solutions OneScore) calculated using Bell wireless 5G network and 5G+ testing in Canada against other national wireless networks from
March to October 2023.

27

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our networks

We also continued to expand 5G+ service in urban and rural
markets, including communities in New Brunswick, Newfoundland
and Labrador, Nova Scotia and Manitoba. Today, 5G+ is considered
to be the fastest mobile technology in Canada. It improves the
performance of today’s demanding apps and services, such as
gaming and streaming, video conferencing, and IoT solutions, while
also supporting future innovations. As of the end of 2023, Bell’s 5G+
network was available to 51% of Canadians. Bell aslo secured the
most 5G+ spectrum nationwide in the federal government’s 3500
and 3800 MHz spectrum auctions recently securing the acquisition
of 939 licenses for 3800 MHz spectrum, and acquired at a total cost
that was the lowest among national wireless carriers.

responding to outages and maintaining functional,
reliable networks SASB TC-SI-550a.1 and TC-SI-550a.2
Building, maintaining and expanding strong communications
networks is vital to the present and future well-being of all
Canadians.
Bell’s network investments are delivering world-leading and reliable
networks and services to customers in urban, rural and remote
communities. Investing in network security, capacity and resiliency
has helped Bell achieve 99.9952%(1) network reliability, achieving our
target to maintain our network reliability above 99.99%. Our 2023
investments have provided core network architecture, diversity and
redundancy – including multiple transport routes – which minimize
the risk of major service disruptions. With the rise in extreme weather
emergencies like wildfires, floods, ice storms and hurricanes, we are
adapting our business practices to improve network resiliency and will
continue to take measurable action to mitigate these impacts, promote
sustainable practices and strengthen resiliency moving forward.
A recent example was our response during Hurricane Lee in the Atlantic
region. Bell worked alongside partners including provincial Emergency
Management Offices, local utilities, first responders and other partners
to ensure a coordinated response. Bell’s investment in additional
generators helped mitigate service impacts while technicians worked
to restore service as quickly and safely as possible. Throughout the
restoration effort, customers were kept updated through our social
media channels and website.

(1) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.

28

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Bell’s network reliability
99.99%

Target
2022

99.9955%

2023

99.9952%

0

99,9
99.9

100

Bell’s customer commitment is demonstrated by our operational
governance processes, our best-in-class design and network
architectural practices, and the continuous investments that we
make in our networks year after year.
At Bell, we know that our customers trust us to keep them connected.
They rely on our services for work, school, to stay informed, and to
reach out to loved ones. By prioritizing reliability and responsiveness
in our day-to-day operations, Bell team members mobilize quickly
to resolve outages and respond to emergencies.
For more than two decades, we have successfully deployed most of
the largest mission-critical two-way radio service communications
networks in Canada. We are proud that we have a unique mandate
to serve the public when it matters most, providing public safety
radio communications to more than 80,000 first responders and
other essential services in Canada.
Bell is the largest provider of 9-1-1 emergency services in Canada.
We offer specialized 24/7 bilingual support and network monitoring
to emergency contact centres in Manitoba, Ontario, Québec,
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, and Newfoundland
and Labrador. We offer the Text with 9-1-1 (T9-1-1) service, and
we support the Alert Ready system used to inform Canadians of
critical emergencies in their area. Bell is also leading the way in the
development of Next Generation 9-1-1 (NG911).

Our success depends on robust privacy and information security practices. Customers increasingly value privacy considerations and
expect organizations to diligently safeguard their information. Companies are increasingly facing cybersecurity threats, and building
strong governance around information security practices is necessary to address the threat landscape. There have been, and will
continue to be, significant changes to privacy and information security laws and regulations to which Bell and its customers must adhere.

Our activities and outcomes
Committing to data privacy
GRI 205-2, 418-1, SASB TC-TL-220a.1 and TC-SI-220a.1

Our customers and team members expect us to collect data
appropriately, use it for purposes that advance their interests,
and keep it secure.
Increasing customer awareness regarding the protection of their
personal information has attracted the attention of lawmakers
and regulators, resulting in changes to privacy laws and increased
regulatory scrutiny.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our networks

Privacy and information security

Our privacy policy clearly explains how and when we collect, use,
and disclose personal information.
Every year, all Bell team members must review and sign the Bell Code
of Business Conduct. This reinforces the importance of safeguarding
customer information and using it only as allowed under our privacy
policy. In 2023, Bell continued to make significant investments in
people, processes and technology in order to enhance our privacy
management program and to protect confidential information from
evolving cybersecurity threats.

Our objective is to have zero unresolved well-founded privacy
complaints(1) from the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of
Canada. We achieved this goal once again in 2023.

Bell is a founding member of the Canadian Cyber Threat Exchange
(CCTX), created to build collaboration and share cyber threat
intelligence between private and public organizations with a
Canadian focus.

We must be able to identify and address information security
risks in a timely manner in order to best protect our customers,
our networks, team members and business assets.

In 2021, we launched our Be Cyber Savvy information security
education program. This program includes access to our specialized
cyber awareness platform, monthly phishing simulations, baseline
cybersecurity courses and a recurring annual course to maintain
knowledge. At the end of 2023, 95% of onboarded team members
completed baseline training (1), achieving our goal of a 90% completion
rate.

Our Information Security program is based on guiding principles
to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of all
Bell information systems, services, and networks. We build and
continuously improve security policies and directives based on
industry standards and the threat landscape. In 2023, we have
aligned our program at 100% of the ISO/IEC 27001 standard, which we
will continue to use as a base to build on and maintain our information
security management system.

We had a 33% reporting rate for phishing simulations in 2023(2), a 32%
improvement year-over-year. We believe a combination of training,
clear messaging and positive reinforcement will lead to continued
year-over-year improvement in reporting suspected phishing
attempts and demonstrate team member engagement in keeping
Bell secure. This year, we observed a 142% increase in reported
phishing simulations from fully trained employees compared to
non-trained employees.

We implement prevention, detection and incident response programs
to address security threats. Our full suite of security solutions is
monitored by Bell’s Security Operations Centre. The centre is
staffed 24/7 to provide incident and policy management, and to
report on all security-related incidents. Bell, like any company, faces
cybersecurity threats on a sustained basis and aims to avoid and
minimize any impacts.

Reported phishing simulation between our fully
trained employees and non-trained employees on our
Be Cyber Savvy information security training

prioritizing information security

2022
Non-trained
2023
Fully trained

+142% more reporting

(1) A complaint is considered well-founded if the Information Commissioner concluded that one or more of the allegations in the complaint has merit.
(2) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.

29

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our customers and relationships

Our customers and relationships
We enable better experiences by offering smart solutions and collaborative partnerships that champion the customer
experience and support community, resiliency and growth.
Our relationships with key stakeholders are at the core of our
success. We drive our growth by developing and delivering
innovative services to our customers. This is made possible by
our determination to continue building and operating the best
communications networks in the country.

Champion customer
experience

Drive growth
with innovative services

Build the
best networks

How we monitor impact and progress:
Topic

✪ Target

YoY
change
Improved
by 1.1
percentage
points

CCTS

+$0.7M

PwC(1)

Customer experience

Reduce Bell’s percentage of complaints to the CCTS

Reduced to
16.1%
in 2023

Community investment

Help build better communities across the country by
contributing to groundbreaking work in mental health
and engaging in volunteerism and charitable giving

$22,893,539

Stable

Decreasing

Improving

2023
third-party
verification

2023
performance

Trend

Achieved

To learn more about Our customers and relationships, please see the following links:
— Our customers and relationships web page
— ESG data summary
— Our corporate responsibility approach
— Empowering voices and fostering a space for all
— BCE Inc.’s Fighting Against Forced and Child Labour report

Customers
To effectively champion customer experience, all of our team members, regardless of role, keep the customer top of mind in everything
they do. We prioritize our customers’ needs in all facets of the customer journey, from developing and implementing solutions and
initiatives to sales, service and support.

Our activities and outcomes
Championing customer experience
Making it easier for customers to do business with Bell is
fundamental to everything we do, which is why we are continuously
working to improve our systems and processes.

(1) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.

30

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

As part of our transformation to a technology services company
we are introducing new “single stack” digital ordering and billing
capabilities. Over the years, Bell has developed multiple billing and
ordering systems to support our products and services across
different regions. Now we’re working to simplify our processes for
customers and team members by developing an approach that
consolidates billing and ordering into one national system.

Delivering lower prices for consumers

We continue to add and enhance a range of technology-driven
tools and resources that help make interacting with Bell easier
and more direct.

Canada’s competitive communications landscape continues to
benefit consumers.

This includes making it easier for customers to use our self-install
option for Bell and Virgin Plus services when their homes are already
connected to our FTTH network. Customers can use easy-to-follow
instructions using our award winning My Bell or Virgin Plus My
Account apps to install the required equipment, which is mailed to
their residences. This empowers customers to activate their own
wireline services faster through a more cost-effective and convenient
process.
Virtual Repair also enables customers to run their own diagnostic
service checks, identify local service outages, resolve common issues,
connect with a Bell support team member, and book an appointment
for a technician visit online if required.
We are also leveraging our online and social media platforms to do
a better job keeping customers informed during outages through
our social media channels and via notifications on the MyBell app.
The MyBell app has also been upgraded to include a guided experience
for new customers and improved ordering processes that make it
even easier to complete transactions digitally using a smartphone
or tablet. Another convenient option for customers is the Bell Wi-Fi
app, which allows customers to use their smartphone to control their
home networks by pausing Internet access, sharing Wi-Fi with guests
and running speed tests.
In 2023, our suite of mobile apps continued to be recognized
internationally for excellence in design, ease of use and capabilities,
highlighted with a prestigious Webby Award for the My Bell app.
The MyBell app was also named the Best Telecommunication Mobile
Application at the Mobile Web Awards, an award Bell’s suite of mobile
apps has won for six consecutive years.

GRI 203-2

From January 2020 to December 2023, average wireless prices have
fallen by 45% and prices for Internet services have fallen by over 5%.
These declines came during a period when overall inflation increased
over 15%(1).
In fact, prices for wireless and wireline services in Canada have been
decreasing since 2017. Importantly, the cost of services in Canada is
in line with peer countries as a percentage of income, which shows
that prices remain affordable for Canadian consumers (2).
The Canadian telecommunications sector continues to offer
competitive prices while delivering 99.7% mobile wireless coverage.

Measuring performance
We monitor and analyze insights and feedback from our customers
through our multiple channels and platforms, as well as our
progress in reducing complaints compared to industry-wide
performance.
The most recent CCTS Annual Report 2022–2023 shows that our focus
on championing the customer experience through investments in
training, tools and self-serve channels is making a difference
compared to other national service providers. The CCTS report
shows that Bell’s share of industry complaints has decreased to 16.1%,
down 6%, which was the only decline among national providers(3).
In fact, our share of complaints declined for an eighth consecutive
year. Together, our BCE group of companies and affiliates finished
3% lower year-over-year and have reduced our complaints volume
by 51% over the past five years.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our customers and relationships

developing customer tools and resources

We aim to continue improving our CCTS results through our
ongoing focus on making customer service training, tools and
processes even better.

Share of complaints accepted by the Commission
for Complaints for Telecom-television Services
2020–21
2021–22
2022–23

20.7%
17.2%
16.1%

(1) Statistics Canada. Table 18-10-0004-01 Consumer Price Index, monthly, not seasonally adjusted.
(2) PwC, Understanding the affordability of wireless and wireline services in Canada.
(3) The CCTS numbers/data only includes Bell Canada (this excludes Bell Aliant, Bell MTS, Virgin Plus, Lucky Mobile, PC Mobile).

31

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our customers and relationships

our commitment to accessibility

GRI 203-2

BCE is committed to treating all people in a way that allows
them to maintain their dignity and independence. An important
part of doing this is to identify, prevent, and remove barriers to
accessibility.
Bell seeks to reduce barriers and provide specialized support in
a variety of ways, including through our Accessibility Services
Centre (ASC). This specialized call centre is dedicated to supporting
customers, including through accessible products and services,
with a variety of accessibility needs such as hearing, vision, speech,
cognitive and mobility. Customers also have access to our detailed
accessibility web pages for Bell, Bell MTS, Bell Aliant, Virgin Plus, and
Lucky Mobile so that they can learn about the customized solutions
and discounts available to them. Bell Mobility, Virgin Plus and Lucky
Mobile customers using Video Relay Service (VRS) on a Bell mobile
network are not charged for data associated with using the service.
Customers with disabilities are also eligible for a 411 exemption,
allowing them to make free directory assistance calls.
Bell Media continues to improve our content accessibility, including
ongoing improvements to the quality and availability of closedcaptioning and described video. This includes working with content
providers to significantly update and improve our catalogue of
content with described video.
To lead our accessibility approach, we have established an Executive
Accessibility Steering Committee that provides executive oversight
of BCE’s Accessibility Program. This steering committee is composed
of senior executives from across the organization who prioritize and
guide our accessibility plans.

With this feedback, guidance of our Executive Accessibility Steering
Committee and input from persons who either have accessibility
needs or are members of support organizations, BCE published
our initial multi-year Accessibility Plan on April 16, 2023. The plan is
available in multiple formats including American Sign Language (ASL)
and Langue des signes du Québec (LSQ), and also in line with the ACA.
To learn more about Bell’s accessibility Products and Services, visit
bell.ca/Accessibility_services.

We also continue to learn through the formal accessibility feedback
process we launched in May 2022 in accordance with the federal
government’s Accessible Canada Act (ACA), and through consultations
with employees and other persons with accessibility needs.

Community
Building strong relationships with Canadians extends beyond our direct product and service offering. We aim to strengthen the
communities in which we operate. We do this through a variety of means including our mental health programs, our DEIB initiatives,
community projects we support, team member volunteerism and charitable giving, national and local sponsorships, economic activities
and industry partnerships.

Our activities and outcomes
advocating mental health through
Bell let’s talk GRI 201-1
Bell is taking a leading role in helping address the mental health
crisis in Canada with the Bell Let’s Talk mental health initiative.
The program encourages Canadians to take action and achieve
real change in mental health.
The goal of the Bell Let’s Talk mental health initiative is to reduce
the stigma surrounding mental illness, while accelerating access to
care, supporting research and promoting psychologically healthy
workplaces.
Each year, Canadians and people worldwide meaningfully engage
in the mental health conversation on Bell Let’s Talk Day. In 2023, Bell
made a fundamental shift in the campaign by highlighting the mental

32

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

health crisis Canadians are facing in very real and personal ways and
issued a collective call to action and change. Bell Let’s Talk Day 2024
continued to put a spotlight on mental health organizations across
the country that are providing supports and services for Canadians
experiencing mental health issues – organizations that Bell Let’s Talk is
proud to support. Bell expects to reach its total current commitment
of $155 million by 2025.
In October 2023, Bell Let’s Talk announced a $1 million donation to
the IWK Health Foundation in Halifax, the Maritimes’ leading children’s
health care and research centre, to help change the way patients
requiring emergency mental health services are cared for in the IWK
Emergency Department (ED). This gift will support a dedicated mental
health space in the new IWK ED, including its own waiting area and
will provide a therapeutic, private and confidential environment for
children, youth and families.

The Bell Let’s Talk Community Fund supports registered charities
working to improve access to mental health supports and services
in communities throughout Canada. In October 2023, the Fund
announced 115 new grants. Since 2011, the Fund has provided over
1,100 grants and invested over $20.5 million into helping ensure
Canadians have increased access to the services needed to address
the growing mental health crisis.
The Bell Let’s Talk Diversity Fund provides grants to organizations
working to increase access to culturally-informed mental health
and wellness supports and services for BIPOC communities across
the country. Since the launch in 2020, the Fund has provided
49 grants totalling $5.45 million, including 10 new grants announced
in January 2024.
In 2023, the Bell True Patriot Love Fund awarded a total of $350,000
to 10 organizations making a meaningful difference in the military
veteran community. These organizations improve access to mental
health care for military members, veterans and their families.
In January 2024, the Bell Let’s Talk Post-Secondary Fund awarded
$1 million to 11 Canadian colleges, universities, and cégeps to support
initiatives that align with the National Standard of Canada for Mental
Health and Well-Being for Post-Secondary Students or the Québec
Action Plan on Student Mental Health for Higher Education.
Bell follows the National Standard for Psychological Health and
Safety in the Workplace, and promotes its adoption across corporate
Canada. As we aim to lead by example, with the goal of inspiring
greater engagement in corporate Canada and encouraging adoption
of healthier workplace frameworks, we continue to share best
practices through tailored presentations, conferences, benchmarking
exercises and by participating in various advisory committees.

We invest in mental health programs across the country to
ensure that more Canadians can better access the care they
need. Bell’s cumulative mental health funding objective is to reach
$155 million by 2025.
To learn more about how Bell Let’s Talk is making an impact on
Canadians’ mental health, visit Bell.ca/LetsTalk.

Supporting diversity, equity, inclusion
and belonging in our communities
In line with our values, Bell extends its DEIB initiatives beyond our
workplace and into our communities.
Bell helps to foster positive and mutually respectful relationships
with Indigenous peoples and communities, including colleagues,
customers and community members. Bell supports the principles
of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous
Peoples and the recommendations of the Truth and Reconciliation
Commission’s 94 Calls to Action. All team members are encouraged
to learn more about contributing to reconciliation as this helps
everyone recognize the systemic inequalities and discrimination
that Indigenous peoples experience, and encourages us to do better.
Bell and Bell Media are proud of their long tradition of support for
Canadian arts and culture. We work with diverse partners to enrich
the communities we serve through the encouragement of creative
expression and with ongoing support of festivals showing Canada’s
rich diversity of content and creators. These initiatives range from
a full roster of cultural activities and festivals around the country, to
something as innovative and creative as it is transforming.

Investing in creating community value

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our customers and relationships

Bell Let’s Talk is active year round providing funding through the Bell
Let’s Talk Community Fund, Diversity Fund, Post-Secondary Fund and
Bell True Patriot Love Fund. Bell Let’s Talk has partnered with more than
1,500 organizations including hospitals, universities, local community
service providers and other care and research organizations. This
collaboration has enabled these organizations to improve access
to mental health supports and services in communities nationwide.

GRI 201-1

Acting as an engaged corporate citizen has been central to
our identity for over 144 years. Bell contributes to the creation
of shared value for the communities we serve and for society
at large.
Our goal is to help build better communities across the country
by contributing to groundbreaking work in three areas – mental
health, team member volunteerism and charitable giving. Our overall
community investment in 2023 was $22,893,539(1).
Communities also benefit from the engagement of our team
members as they support the causes they value deeply. Through
the Bell for Better Team Giving Program, our team members are
highly engaged in charitable giving and volunteerism to make the
world a better place. Bell doubles the impact by matching donations
to registered Canadian charities, up to $1,000 per team member per
year. In addition, Bell provides team grants to charities based on,
and in recognition of, the volunteer time commitments of our team
members and retirees. During the 2023 Bell for Better Team Giving
Campaign, Bell team members and retirees donated over $2 million to
more than 2,000 Canadian charities, matched by a further $1.5 million
from Bell. More than 128,000 volunteer hours were tracked, resulting
in 382 team grants for charitable organizations across Canada.

(1) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.

33

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our customers and relationships

Contributing to large-scale
economic benefits GRI 201-1
Canada’s communications industry is the backbone of innovation
and economic growth in Canada. It plays a major role in enabling
Canadian prosperity now and in the future, and enables businesses
to innovate and advance in the digital age.
By providing the networks and cutting-edge technology that people
and businesses rely on, Canada’s communications industry not only
drives innovation and economic growth across the country, but also
powers a smarter future for all Canadians, especially as businesses
continue to prioritize digital transformation. According to a recent
report from the Canadian Telecommunications Association (CTA),
increased connectivity has the potential to contribute an incremental
$112 billion to Canada’s GDP by 2035.
According to the same study, the telecommunications sector
contributed almost $77 billion to Canada’s GDP in 2022 and supported
724,000 jobs, including more than 113,000 direct jobs – helping
virtually every sector of the economy(1).
Bell estimates every $1 billion investment in broadband and 5G
networks over one year generates an estimated $2 billion in economic
activity and supports over 6,000 jobs at Bell and throughout our
Canadian supply chain(2).
The connectivity made possible as the direct result of investments by
Bell and other network providers powers Canada’s digital economy.
It fuels innovation and new growth opportunities in important areas
of the economy, including logistics and transportation, agriculture,
education, digital media and environmental sustainability.

reducing the digital divide

GRI 203-1

Consistently improving our networks and offering affordable
options gives Canadians better access to services that are
important to everyday life.
Bell believes that your postal code should not determine your
economic future. In April 2023, the company published a white
paper focused on how Canada can address place-based
disparities and move toward place-based diversity. Better
connectivity can help small-business owners reach new markets,
students access online learning and seniors receive specialized
health care remotely. Using the digital networks that companies
like Bell are building, we can bridge the digital divide and ensure
a brighter future for all Canadians – no matter where they live.
Originally launched in November 2018, and updated in 2022, the
Connecting Families program now offers speeds that are up to
five times faster than in phase one of the program, and includes
200 gigabytes of data for $20 per month. The second phase also
broadens eligibility to include low-income seniors and families
receiving the maximum Child Care Benefit (CCB). The initiative is
administered through Computers for Success Canada (CFSC-OPEC),
a not-for-profit partner of the Government of Canada’s digital
inclusion and economic development programs, and is made possible
through the involvement of service providers like Bell and others.
In 2021, Bell joined other companies to launch the CEO Pledge campaign
initiated by Microsoft Canada. The campaign aims to bring companies
together to commit to reducing the digital divide by donating their
used equipment to the Computers for Schools Plus (CFS+) program.
In 2023, we donated approximately 6,000 computers. Bell is actively
involved in Computers for Schools Québec (OPEQ – Ordinateurs pour
les écoles du Québec), the Québec division of CFS+, by ensuring
representation on the board of directors, appointing an employee
as Executive Director and providing space for a workshop and the
administrative offices for the OPEQ management team. In addition to
providing thousands of refurbished equipment per year to schools,
non-profit organizations and low-income individuals, OPEQ offers
internships that contribute to the development of digital skills and
the integration into the labour market of young technicians and
people with physical or intellectual limitations. By participating in this
program, Bell aims to help reduce the digital divide and contribute to
the employability of the workforce of today and tomorrow.

(1) Connecting Canadians through resilient networks: The impact of the telecom sector in 2022 and beyond, PwC for the CTA.
(2) Estimate calculated on the basis of Table 36-10-0594-01, Input-output multipliers, detail level, from Statistics Canada for the Communication engineering construction industry.

34

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Accountability is at the centre of the mutually beneficial and ethical relationships we establish with suppliers. We hold our suppliers to
high standards and recognize the potential social and environmental impacts when purchasing goods and services. We endeavour
to choose suppliers that share Bell’s values in ethical behaviours and diversity.

Our activities and outcomes
Monitoring supplier selection and
accountability GRI 2-6, 308-1
Bell holds its suppliers to the same high standards of business
as we hold ourselves.
Our values and expectations for our suppliers are set out in our
Supplier Code of Conduct, included by default in our contracts. This
Code seeks to ensure suppliers maintain data privacy and security
controls, reduce environmental impacts and respect labour and
human rights, ethics, health and safety and responsible sourcing
of minerals. The Code helps minimize risks to our operations and
reputation in the following areas: business continuity, information
security, privacy, health and safety, environment, labour, human
rights and financial stability.
In accordance with our supplier risk management program,
additional due diligence may be required from suppliers based
on the results of our preliminary risk assessment. The products
and services Bell purchases are assigned a value of high, medium
or low risk. Risk level is determined during the initial onboarding
assessment and subsequent assessments, which are then shared
with the supplier to collect additional details pertaining to their data
management, Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance, environment

and sustainability policies, and business continuity plans. Suppliers
may also be asked to provide supplementary information, such
as their ethics and labour policy, health and safety standards and
environmental policy. Bell’s supplier requests are dependent on
the type of product or service provided to the company. Mitigating
controls are applied to seek to manage the risk of the product and/
or service purchased. In some cases, Bell shares its own internal
procedures and directives for suppliers to follow.
Based on the level of information security and privacy risk, suppliers
with a high-risk rating are reassessed on a yearly basis and mediumrisk suppliers are assessed every three years. Other suppliers are
assessed upon contract renewal. Suppliers that have a potential
significant impact on our operations, customers and services are
defined as critical suppliers and we conduct regular touchpoints with
them. In addition, Bell reserves the right to conduct on-site audits
of key suppliers. Two supplier site audits were conducted in 2023.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our customers and relationships

Suppliers

In 2023, we continued exploring technologies and risk methodologies
to enhance and optimize our management of critical suppliers. This
involves the use of big data, creation of dashboards, and improved
performance indicators.
We seek quality products and services through mutually beneficial
and ethical relationships with suppliers who act responsibly, respect
the environment and demonstrate integrity in the marketplace.

35

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our customers and relationships

procuring responsibly through our supply chain
Evaluating the impacts of purchased goods within our supply
chain is as important as the work ethics of our suppliers.
Bell makes clear its approach to the responsible business and risk
management practices of its suppliers through the Supplier Code
of Conduct. We also seek to address the responsible procurement
of specific products through our sustainable criteria program.
The program focuses on conflict minerals in electronic products,
sustainable packaging, product energy efficiency and other criteria
for customer electronic devices.
Bell’s sustainable criteria are revised every three years with the aim
of ensuring they meet industry standards. New criteria are added
as our risks and opportunities assessments evolve. To monitor the
application of sustainable criteria in supplier contracts, we audit our
internal business units annually to verify that all required sustainable
criteria have been included.

We will continue to engage our suppliers in this initiative with the
goal of reaching 64% of our suppliers by spend having committed
or set science-based targets by 2026.

$70 million

Spent $70 million with certified diverse
suppliers in 2023
promoting diversity among our suppliers
By extending the values of DEIB to Bell’s supplier relationships, we
aim to provide equal sourcing opportunities for capable, diverse
suppliers.

In 2023, the Canadian parliament passed Bill S-211, An Act to enact the
Fighting Against Forced Labour and Child Labour in Supply Chains
Act and to amend the Customs Tariff, which has been effective
since January 1, 2024. The act is intended to minimize forced and
child labour in Canadian supply chains and ensure that Canadian
businesses operating abroad do not contribute to human rights
abuses. As required, BCE issued a report explaining the steps taken
in the previous year to prevent and reduce the risk that forced labour
and child labour are used in their supply chain.

We believe that our supplier base should reflect the diverse
communities in which we operate, which helps drive the delivery of
advanced products and services that resonate with our customers.
Bell’s supplier diversity program encourages the active inclusion of
businesses that are majority-owned and managed by Indigenous
peoples, visible minorities, women, 2SLGBTQIA+ individuals, veterans
and persons with disabilities.

Engaging with suppliers to promote
growth and innovation

In collaboration with Canadian certifying and advocacy organizations,
we continue to expand our network and advocate for diverse-owned
business opportunities.

Engaging actively with suppliers to identify opportunities and
address risks is key to fostering a sustainable value chain.
Our suppliers are a key component of our success, and choosing
the right suppliers is critical considering the growing constraints on
global provisioning. We work with our key suppliers to seek to ensure
they align with our values and we challenge them to collaborate on
innovative projects to drive improvements.
For example, Bell works with suppliers to participate in innovative
solutions that seek to minimize the environmental impact of our
business operations. This means we work with suppliers to redirect,
reuse, repurpose and recycle material from our waste streams
wherever possible. We also support organizations that are focused
on protecting the environment and decarbonizing their operations.

36

In 2023, 28% of our suppliers by spend had set science-based
targets for reducing their greenhouse emissions, providing a helpful
illustration of our collective focus.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

BCE spent $70 million with certified diverse suppliers in 2023.
In 2024, we will continue to advocate for, and strive to increase,
year-over-year spend with certified diverse suppliers by 3% to
5%, and the number of active certified diverse suppliers by 5%.

Our products and services enable Canadians to take advantage of the emerging capabilities and applications powered
by our world-class networks. As we shift from a traditional telco to a tech services and digital media company, we seek to
expand our offerings to include modern IT platforms, cloud-based solutions and AI-driven solutions to meet the evolving
needs of our customers.
Driving growth with innovative services is a strategic imperative
as we respond to the needs of our customers, helping them stay
connected, informed, productive and entertained. The digital
nature of our products and services contributes to the transition
of our customers to a low-carbon economy and helps create a
more sustainable and prosperous future.

Drive growth
with innovative
services

Deliver the
most compelling
content

Engage and invest in
our people and create
a sustainable future

How we monitor impact and progress:
Topic

✪ Target

Performance

Enabling transition to
a low-carbon economy

Increase carbon savings enabled by the use
of Bell’s technological solutions(1)

5.2 times Bell’s
operational GHG
emissions

Stable

Decreasing

Improving

YoY
change

Third-party
verification

+2.7 (was 2.5
in 2017)

–

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our products and services

Our products and services

Trend

Achieved

To learn more about Our products and services, please see the following links:
— Our products and services web page
— ESG data summary
— Our corporate responsibility approach

Success indicators
Success indicators for our products and services

2023

YoY change

Research and development (capex)

$684M

+$69M from 2022

Research and development (opex)

$90M

+$33M from 2022

Original French content produced (hours)

1,300+

+4% from 2022

Original English content produced (hours)

37,100+

–6% from 2022

English-language entertainment series commissioned, led by BIPOC or creatives from other
equity-seeking communities

45%

+4% from 2022

(1) Performance is estimated pursuant to our carbon abatement ratio based on 2020 data which is when our latest evaluation was completed. For more information on this metric, please
refer to About this report at the beginning of this report, and to the section “Contributing to a better world through our products and services” on page 40.

37

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our products and services

Innovative digital technologies
Innovation is a building block for Bell’s success, with our extensive fibre and wireless networks at the foundation. We work with multiple
companies and organizations in Canada and internationally to develop new products and services that provide greater capabilities and
better experiences for both residential and business customers. To help ensure a continued innovation pipeline, we invested in hundreds
of research and development projects in 2023, with the goal of increasing value for Canadians today and in the future.

Our activities and outcomes
developing innovative services for
a digitally connected world
The development of new products, services and applications at
Bell is driven by our continued focus on our fibre and 5G wireless
networks. We are building a more connected, innovative and
sustainable social and business environment for all Canadians.
In 2023, we expanded availability of multi-gigabit Internet speeds for
fibre customers in several locations in the Atlantic provinces, Québec,
Ontario and Manitoba. As of the end of 2023, 6.5 million locations had
access to Internet speeds of three gigabits-per-second (Gbps).
Further transforming the home Internet experience, our Giga Hub
supports multi-gigabit speeds and is compatible with Wi-Fi 6E
technology, the next evolution of Wi-Fi advancement. The Giga
Hub enables customers to better connect with family and friends,
work, learn, stream and game online on any or all of their devices
simultaneously.
Our suite of Bell Smart Home services makes it easier for residential
customers to manage their home from anywhere. We continue to
offer convenient and energy-saving Smart Home tools – cameras,
doorbells and thermostats – that customers can control through the
Bell Smart Home app.

38

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

For media advertisers, Bell Media offers the cutting-edge Bell
Marketing Platform, an integrated suite of data-driven tools powered
by Bell First Party Data, including Bell Analytics, Bell DSP (DemandSide Platform), and SAM (Strategic Audience Management). These
tools streamline the media buying process, enabling advertisers to
easily identify, connect with, and measure their target audiences
across various media formats. Further enriching our portfolio, Bell
Media has introduced exciting new solutions and premium inventory
such as ads on Crave, Addressable TV, and Addressable Audio, each
designed to enhance advertising efficacy and reach.

Strengthening 5g and its applications
Bell is well positioned to offer customers new and innovative
5G applications providing enhanced capabilities for Canadians.
In 2022, Bell started rolling out 5G+, the fastest mobile technology in
Canada. With increased capacity and reduced latency, 5G+ improves
the performance of demanding apps and services, and supports
future innovations that enhance the lives of Canadians, such as virtual
and augmented reality, gaming, artificial intelligence, cloud and IoT
technologies and industrial transformation. Bell’s 5G+ network is now
available to 51% of the Canadian population.
Leveraging the power of 5G speeds, in 2023, Bell Canada, Verizon,
Vodafone and European-based B2B software company, MATSUKO
successfully conducted the first live transatlantic collaborative
meeting connecting multiple holographic people in Canada, the U.S.
and the UK using multi-access edge computing (MEC) technology.
This demonstration, conducted at the 5G Future Forum, showcases
the ground breaking capabilities of 5G MEC technology.

accelerating digital transformation for businesses

Investing in R&D and tomorrow’s technology is foundational to
driving innovation across our portfolio of products and services,
keeping us at the forefront of network innovation and leadership.

Bell is helping organizations accelerate their digital transform­
ation with end-to-end support. We provide leading professional
and managed services and an unmatched ecosystem of cloud
partnerships.

Since 2001, Bell has invested more in R&D than any other
communications company in Canada(1), supporting the evolution
toward new and advanced communications technologies and
services that will ultimately benefit Canadians.

Bell has long championed the connectivity and technology prowess
of small, medium and large businesses, and we pride ourselves on
bringing best-in-class communications solutions and expertise to
Canadian businesses of every size.

Bell has spent more than $4.6 billion in capital expenditures on R&D
since 2014.

In 2023, Bell acquired cloud services leader FX Innovation,
strengthening support for Canadian businesses on their digital
transformation journey. This acquisition leverages the strengths of
the two companies to help businesses realize their full digital potential
with integrated multi-cloud solutions. FX Innovation’s expertise in
cloud managed and professional services, combined with Bell’s
national scale, resources and world-class fibre and 5G networks,
will deliver end-to-end solutions to help enterprises innovate and
grow their business.

$559M

$615M

$684M

$59M

$57M

$90M

in 2021

in 2022

in 2023

(CapEx)

(OpEx)

(CapEx)

(OpEx)

(CapEx)

(OpEx)

In addition, we are investing in entrepreneurship and advanced
technologies with our venture capital initiative, Bell Ventures, to
encourage development of early-stage and growth companies that
harness the strengths of our fibre and 5G networks. These companies
are expected to deliver innovations in network operations,
cybersecurity, IoT, robotics, telematics, clean technology, artificial
intelligence and augmented reality/virtual reality. We collaborate
with more than 240 Canadian technology partners to advance
innovation throughout our operations.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our products and services

driving innovation forward with research and
development (r&d) and venture capital investments

Additionally in 2023, we announced a collaboration with ServiceNow,
a cloud-based company focused on digital workflow solutions to
help companies automate and streamline their IT management
workflows. Through this collaboration, ServiceNow capabilities we
have integrated into the Bell service ecosystem using ServiceNow’s
Service Bridge application. This solution will offer Bell business
customers streamlined service provisioning, improved operational
efficiencies, and a more intuitive user experience, all by leveraging
purpose-built telecom solutions, automation, and AI-driven insights.
Bell’s fibre and 5G wireless networks are the backbone for Canadian
businesses today as they innovate and advance in the digital age.
As many of our customers are increasingly using public and hybrid
cloud solutions, we continue to maintain strong relationships with
Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure to
ensure we deliver next-generation cloud experiences and hybrid
work solutions to Bell customers. To support our customers using
AWS, we launched the Bell / AWS Training Club in 2023, giving Bell team
members access to over 600 training courses from foundational
AWS skills to advanced specializations like cloud, cybersecurity and
multi-access edge computing (MEC).

(1) Research InfoSource, Spotlight on Two Decades of Corporate R&D (2022).

39

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our products and services

Contributing to a better world through our products and services
Our products and services provide value to Canadians by helping them both mitigate climate change and adapt to its impacts.
Our solutions enable customers to reduce environmental impacts, improve health and safety and better safeguard protected data
from growing risks.

Our activities and outcomes
Solutions contributing to climate change
adaptation and mitigation GRI 201-2

We continue to develop business solutions that aim to enable
carbon emissions reductions and help customers adapt to climate
change.

Bell technological solutions can help our customers reduce energy
needs, minimize carbon footprints(1) and enhance productivity.

Quantifying how our solutions
enable carbon abatement

Our solutions help businesses embrace new ways to communicate,
collaborate, ensure business continuity and be able to maintain
services in the event of emergencies and extreme incidents.

At Bell, we believe it is important to understand the net carbon
abatement impact of our solutions. To achieve this, we have worked
with Groupe AGECO, a third-party consultant with expertise in GHG
emissions quantification, to develop a methodology that uses a
carbon abatement ratio which estimates the carbon reduction
capacity of our products and services used by our customers.

Our solutions(2) include the following:
Virtualization and cloud computing encourage optimal use
of space, power and cooling resources by consolidating
servers and storage. They improve business continuity
through redundancies in our network.
IoT solutions can help optimize asset and fleet management
and are effective for smart buildings, smart cities, smart
operations and smart fieldwork applications. Electronic
controls coupled with our communications networks can
help communities adapt to rising mean temperatures
and/or events such as extended heat waves.
Hybrid workforce solutions and teleworking help
maintain business continuity, as evidenced during the
COVID-19 pandemic.
Dematerialization (the reduction of the quantities
of materials needed to serve an economic function)
encourages the substitution of technology (e.g., online
banking apps) for travel (e.g., commuting to the bank).

Many Bell technological solutions enable our customers to reduce
GHG emissions by optimizing transport, energy use and asset
operations. For example, using Bell’s fleet management solution
reduces travel distances and fuel consumption. These estimated
benefits are calculated using the carbon abatement ratio, which
represents the GHG emissions estimated to have been avoided by
our customers through the use of our technological solutions in
comparison to our own operational (scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions.
To do so, GHG emissions are estimated in a business-as-usual case
where technology is not used compared to the case where Bell’s
products are used. The avoided GHG emissions correspond to the
difference between the emissions estimated to have been generated
in a business-as-usual case compared to the case where Bell’s
technological solutions are used.

(1) As demonstrated by the Global Enabling Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), their research demonstrated that ICT solutions can decouple economic growth from emissions growth. ICT such
as analytics, advanced robotics, Smart Grids, advanced energy management solutions, Smart building, Smart agriculture and Smart logistics solutions enable a reduction of global
CO2e emissions.
(2) To learn more about collaboration solutions, click here.

40

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Teleworking

Dematerialization

Conferencing solutions

CO2 equivalent

600 kilotonnes

465 kilotonnes

185 kilotonnes

This is the same as…

395,000 car rides

306,000 car rides

467,000 flights

between Halifax and Vancouver

between Halifax and Vancouver

The calculation method of the carbon abatement ratio is based
on existing methodologies developed in the Information and
Communications Technology (ICT) sector. The calculation is based on
assumptions that are dependent on customers’ behaviour over which
Bell has no control. Groupe AGECO’s and Bell’s analysis estimated
that our technological solutions have enabled carbon abatement for
our customers of nearly 1,379 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalent (CO2e) in
2020. This is equal to 5.2 times our 2020 operational (scope 1 and 2)
GHG emissions(1).

Bell technological
solutions
enabling
carbon abatement
technologies enablin
g carbon
abatement
9% 1%
13%

34%

43%

●

Teleworking

●

Dematerialization

●

Conferencing solutions

●

Fleet management

●

Other (energy management,
tank monitoring, bin management,
electronic billing, electronic learning
and cloud services)

between Halifax and Vancouver

This analysis completed by Bell and Groupe AGECO is the third(2) of
its kind. Our objective is to continually increase Bell technological
solutions’ carbon abatement ratio by developing and providing more
products and services that aim to enable carbon reduction.
To help support further advances in this domain, Bell has joined
Digital with Purpose with other global Information and ICT companies.
This is a GeSI project that aims to deliver on the Paris Agreement and
the UNSDGs by 2030. Digital with Purpose provides a framework
that enables ICT companies to identify digitally-enabled solutions
that already create value, as well as set new goals to increase value
in the future.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our products and services

Bell technologies enabling the largest carbon reductions in 2020

The prevalence of Bell’s 5G network is accelerating positive impacts
of wireless technology on the environment. According to a study
published by the CTA and Accenture(3), 5G reduces GHG emissions
by allowing network operators to be more efficient and by enabling
improved carbon abatement.

We seek to further help our customers reduce their carbon
footprints from the use of our products. Our next evaluation
of carbon savings enabled by our technological solutions is
scheduled to be conducted in 2024 .

(1) Taking into account the products and services for which Bell has developed the technology and plays a fundamental role in its delivery to clients, as well as the products and services
for which Bell has not developed the technology but enables it by providing the network. For more information about the carbon abatement ratio, please refer to About this report.
(2) The first and second analyses we performed (based on 2015 and 2017 data, respectively) focused on quantifying Bell’s carbon abatement ratio. In our third analysis, we updated the
quantification of Bell’s carbon abatement ratio based on 2020 data.
(3) Accelerating 5G in Canada: The Role of 5G in the Fight Against Climate Change by CTA and Accenture.

41

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our products and services

Contributing solutions to reduce other
environmental impacts GRI 303-1
Along with the transition to cloud-based services, businesses
can use IoT to help reduce environmental impacts, conserve
energy and help protect employees, citizens and property when
damaging events occur.
Bell IoT solutions can help businesses, governments and others
manage their infrastructure and assets more efficiently. For example,
we offer a water monitoring solution to help prevent water damage or
loss caused by flooding or failed infrastructure through precise and
continuous monitoring, helping to reduce financial and environmental
costs for municipalities caused by water damage.
Our fleet management solution helps organizations identify the shortest
routes between stops and reduce total travel distance and time.
Additionally, our Smart Supply Chain solutions offer other advantages
for long-haul transportation, such as remote temperature monitoring
and controls for food transport to maintain food safety and reduce
food waste.
Businesses can manage their communications needs and resources
more efficiently through the use of online and paperless tools such
as zero-touch ordering and online billing and invoicing, thus also
reducing waste.

Benefits of enhanced connectivity
for health and safety
Bell IoT solutions can help businesses provide a safer, healthier
work environment for their employees.
We help our customers comply with government health and safety
regulations, including Canada’s work-alone legislation, by monitoring
the location and status of field workers at all times. Lone Worker
Safety solutions from Bell can track the location of field workers
24/7 with GPS and real-time monitoring. They can then notify
response teams automatically for immediate assistance in case of
an emergency.
Bell also offers a cloud-based workforce management solution that
uses situational awareness, allowing first responders to keep their
eyes, ears and hands on the job at all times. It simultaneously allows
commanders or dispatchers to better track and manage their entire
operation, even when responders leave their vehicles.

(1) IDC MarketScape: Canadian Security Services 2022 Vendor Assessment.

42

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

IoT-enabled cameras on vehicles help to protect the health and safety
of drivers and pedestrians. Bell’s integrated vehicle camera system
consists of interior and exterior cameras, sensors and a remote
driver coaching platform. Organizations are better able to mitigate
aggressive driving and manage fatigue through the use of the tool.

Security solutions help maintain
business continuity
Evolving cybersecurity attacks are a shared concern for
governments, businesses and the public.
Bell is a longstanding leader in providing security services to Canadian
businesses and organizations, and we continue to secure banks,
governments, retailers, manufacturers and other organizations
across the country to alleviate the challenge of investigating,
detecting, mitigating and resolving cyber attacks.
International Data Corporation (IDC) Canada evaluates security
providers on their current capabilities and future strategies for
delivery of security services. Bell’s security leadership has been
consistently recognized by IDC since 2015, including in its most recent
2022 report(1).
In 2023, Bell partnered with Palo Alto Networks, a multinational
cybersecurity company, to launch two new cloud-native application
protection platform (CNAPP) solutions: Cloud Security Posture
Assessment (CSPA) and Cloud Security Posture Protection (CSPP).
These advanced cybersecurity solutions identify threats to enterprise
data in the cloud and provide managed services to protect data
across complex hybrid and multi-cloud environments.
Subsequent to year-end in early 2024, Bell announced a collaboration
with SentinelOne, a global leader in AI-powered security to provide
extensive data protection services for Bell’s enterprise customers,
leveraging SentinelOne’s Singularity platform to provide endpoint
protection. With this new partnership, Bell will enhance its advanced
enterprise Security Operations Centre (SOC) Services to help
customers gain visibility and insight into data across their entire
enterprise and act on it to secure their environments. This collaboration
marks SentinelOne’s first partnership with a major telecommunications
company in Canada.
To learn more, visit Bell.ca/CyberSecurity

Bell Media is Canada’s leading content creation company, providing Canadians with access to the most compelling entertainment,
news and information they want, when they want it. With premier assets across multiple platforms – including digital, television and
radio – Bell Media produces and distributes high-impact content that entertains, informs and reflects the people and communities we serve.

Our activities and outcomes
producing and delivering meaningful and original
Canadian media content SASB SV-ME-000.B
Bell Media provides a wide range of choices for Canadians to
access content that is compelling and relevant to them – such
as leading news, information, sports, music, movies and series.
Notably, this includes original productions, made in Canada for
Canadian audiences.
Bell Media has both advertising-based and subscription-based
on-demand platforms, as well as conventional linear services
delivering access to local, national and international programming.
Bell Media owns CTV, Canada’s top national network in primetime for
22 consecutive years, and 35 local CTV and Noovo television stations
in markets across the country. As of the end of 2023, it also owns
26 specialty channels, including sports leaders TSN and RDS; bilingual
premium video streaming service Crave; and the Astral out-of-home
advertising network. Bell Media is a partner in Montréal’s Grandé
Studios, Just for Laughs and Dome Productions, one of North
America’s leading production facilities providers. Bell Media also
bought a minority stake in Sphère Media in 2023. Bell Media also owns
the iHeartRadio Canada brand encompassing 215 music channels,
including 103 radio stations in 58 Canadian markets. In June 2023, we
announced our intent to divest three radio stations and in February
2024, we announced our intent to divest an additional 45 of our
103 radio stations, all subject to CRTC review and closing conditions.

Bell Media’s Crave is the only Canadian privately-owned bilingual
subscription-based streaming service. It is available to Canadians
with high-speed Internet access and through participating service
providers. Crave produces and delivers premium Canadian programs,
movies and documentaries. It also features popular content from
major international studios and thousands of hours of Frenchlanguage content. In 2023, we introduced ad-supported tiers on Crave,
and 2023 was the most watched year in Crave’s streaming history.
In sports, TSN, Canada’s sports leader(1), and RDS, the top Frenchlanguage sports network, deliver leading coverage of many major
championships and events. TSN provides world-class content across
five national television feeds, TSN.ca, TSN Radio and the TSN app as
well as TSN+, a new direct-to-consumer streaming product launched
in January 2023. RDS delivers a broad portfolio of French-language
sports programming across multiple platforms, including RDS, RDS2,
RDS INFO, RDS streaming, RDS.ca and the RDS app.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our products and services

Delivering compelling, original and meaningful content

Bell Media local content production

1,300+

hours of original
French content in 2023

37,100+

hours of original
English content in 2023

In 2023, Bell Media produced more than
1,300 hours of original French content,
representing an increase of 4% compared
to 2022. The increases are due to our focus
on Québec original content to fuel Noovo
growth. Additionally, we produced more
than 37,100 hours of English-language
original content in 2023.
More Canadians are now turning to Bell
Media digital properties CTVNews.ca, CP24.
com and BNNBloomberg.ca and related apps
for local, national and international news.
French-language audiences are increasingly
turning to the noovo.info digital news service
launched in early 2022. The service produced
two times more viewings in 2023 compared
to the former Noovo ad-based, on-demand
service. Bell Media further engaged
with audiences on Noovo’s YouTube and
Facebook pages, on TikTok, and via special
radio broadcasts on Énergie and Rouge.

(1) Based on the depth and breadth of broadcasted sporting events, and TSN’s reach, according to data provided by Numeris, a data company providing audience data and insights
capturing media behaviours for the Canadian media industry, and TSN, the consumer preferred brand for live sports and sports news.

43

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our products and services

Bell Media also provides access to local radio programming and
additional content live and on-demand via the iHeartRadio website
and app. iHeartRadio Canada enables Canadians to find programming
important to them anywhere digital connectivity allows.

Bell Media’s investment in a variety of locally-made productions
nurtures and promotes Canadian culture through content
produced by Canadians for Canadians, and brings Canada to
the world.

In recent years, the Canadian broadcasting landscape has undergone
many changes with changing audience behaviour, declining ad
revenues and the growth of foreign streaming giants. In 2023, the
federal government adopted the Online Streaming Act, which
mandates that the CRTC create a new broadcasting framework
that is fit-for-purpose in the streaming age. The new framework will
help to level the playing field by mandating that foreign streaming
platforms do more to promote and fund the creation of Canadian
content. As the consultation process continues, Bell will advocate for
a framework that takes into account the important role broadcasters
play in the system while reducing our overall regulatory burden.

Bell Media continued in 2023 to deliver popular shows like Transplant,
The Amazing Race Canada, Sullivan’s Crossing, Children Ruin
Everything, and Farming for Love on CTV, CTV.ca and the CTV app.
Bell Media launched a new daily talk and lifestyle series, The
Good Stuff with Mary Berg on CTV, and Canada’s number one
lifestyle program, The Social, continued to address topical issues
on CTV’s platforms and on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook, Instagram,
YouTube and TikTok. Original content from Crave that debuted in 2023
included critically-acclaimed Indigenous drama Little Bird, the 12th
and final season of Letterkenny, a second season of the Letterkenny
spin-off Shoresy, docuseries Billionaire Murders, Thunder Bay, and
Dark Side of The Ring; comedies The Dessert, Bria Mack Gets A Life,
and I Have Nothing, and Season four of Canada’s Drag Race. Crave
also forged a multi-year global partnership deal with creators of
Letterkenny and Shoresy to expand exclusive content creation for
Crave. Popular French-language programming produced by Noovo
for 2023 included the dramas Affaire criminelle, L’empereur, Désobéir :
le choix de Chantale Daigle and Aller simple : Survivre. Also featured
were variety shows Je viens vers toi, Le maître du jeu, L’amour est
dans le pré and Survivor Québec, which set a new audience record
in Québec with one million people tuning into the finale. A first for
Bell Media, we commissioned back-to-back English and French
productions based on the international reality format The Traitors
for CTV and Noovo.

Compelling content for Canadian
and international markets
Bell Media invests in producing high-quality content that
resonates with Canadian and international audiences. These
investments in content stimulate local economies and provide
employment for Canadian actors, on-air personalities, comedians,
artists, writers, showrunners, directors, designers, technicians
and many other specialists and suppliers across the industry.
In 2023, Bell Media made a licensing and distribution pact with
FOX Entertainment Global to produce drama, comedy and unscripted
series for CTV and Crave in Canada and FOX in the United States, as well
as for the global market. Bell Media also signed a long-term licensing
agreement with Warner Bros. Discovery, making Crave the Canadian
home of Warner Bros. Discovery content, including HBO Originals,
Max Originals, Warner Bros. films, the DC universe, and the Wizarding
World of Harry Potter. This deal includes English and French rights
for all HBO and HBO Max Originals on Crave. These agreements
build on Bell Media’s strong relationships with international studios.

44

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

MuchMusic has become the most followed Canadian entertainment
brand with more than six million followers across X (formerly Twitter),
YouTube, Instagram, Facebook and TikTok, where our following doubled
in the last year, reaching 4.2 million followers on the platform alone.

Additionally, TSN’s digital sub-brand BarDown continued to be one
of Canada’s most engaging hockey-specific accounts across social
media platforms, led by the country’s two most-viewed original
hockey series on YouTube.

promoting inclusive and diverse content
Bell Media actively engages in DEIB initiatives.
In 2023, Bell Media continued to require diversity and inclusion plans
for all original productions to help reduce barriers and promote
diversity in front of and behind the camera. We work with producers to
conduct ongoing anti-bias training for all members of the production
team and consult with the principles and guidelines put forward
by BIPOC industry organizations, such as “On-Screen Pathways
and Protocols” from the Indigenous Screen Office and “Being Seen:
Directives for Creating Authentic and Inclusive Content” from the Black
Screen Office. We continue to invest in Festivale, the development
incubator administered by the Black Screen Office and forged a
development partnership with the Vancouver Asian Film Festival
to develop two scripted projects submitted through the festival. In
addition to participation in various mentorship programs, including
The Reelworld Producer Program and the National Screen Institute’s
Series Incubator, the Bell Media Prime Time TV Program is working with
the Canadian Film Centre to support development by creators from
BIPOC communities. In partnership with BIPOC TV and Film, in 2023 we
ran a second year of the Unscripted Producers Lab, a development
program for aspiring BIPOC producers and showrunners working
in unscripted, factual and reality television production. This is an
initiative that continues to align with Bell Media’s objective of producing

diverse and inclusive content that resonates with audiences across the
country. In 2023, Bell Media established a new fund designed to support
emerging talent from diverse and equity-seeking backgrounds, by
way of writing room opportunities, content creation, mentorship
and apprentice programs as well as incubators. In 2023, 45% of all
English-language entertainment programs commissioned were led
by BIPOC or creatives from other equity-seeking communities, in key
roles behind and in front of the camera.
In 2023, Bell Media continued its ongoing support of major
arts and culture festivals showcasing Canada’s rich diversity
of content and creators. This includes the imagineNATIVE Film &
Media Arts Festival and the 27th edition of the Toronto Reel Asian
International Film Festival. To further foster Indigenous on-screen
and production talent, Bell Media continues to co-develop and
co-produce with the Aboriginal Peoples Television Network (APTN).
With more co-development underway, this collaboration has led
to co-producing the hit CTV comedy series Acting Good, set in the
fictional fly-in community of Grouse Lake First Nation; award-winning
Crave original drama series Little Bird; and the soon to be released
Don’t Even.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our products and services

As part of the 2023 launch of TSN+, Bell Media acquired the exclusive
Canadian media rights to the PGA Tour Live, giving viewers unique
live streaming feeds from every round of every tournament. Bell
Media continued its long-term relationship with the NFL in 2023,
highlighted by coverage of Super Bowl LVII from Arizona. TSN and
RDS also provided exclusive coverage in Canada of both the FIFA
Women’s World Cup Australia & New Zealand 2023 and the 2023
Formula 1 Canadian Grand Prix in Montréal, in addition to ongoing
coverage of major sports, including the CFL, MLS, MLB, NBA, WNBA,
regional NHL coverage, Seasons of Champions Curling, auto racing,
professional golf and Grand Slam Tennis.

Maintaining journalistic integrity and
accuracy of information SASB SV-ME-270a.3
We are responsible for telling Canada’s stories, reflecting the
country and its multicultural and multiracial dynamics. To maintain
the public trust, we must be impartial and remain independent
from those seeking to influence our news programming.
Bell Media tells Canadian stories that reflect our world as it truly
exists. We are committed to impartial and independent news
reporting and journalistic integrity. Across our news and information
platforms – local, national and international reporting – we provide
accurate, fair and relevant stories in compelling ways. We ensure
our audiences have access to the information they need, when
and where they need it. CTV News is a member of the Trust Project,
a global network of news organizations that affirms a strong
commitment to transparency, accuracy, inclusion and fairness.
Similarly, Noovo adheres to strict editorial standards and policies
that support accurate, fair and complete journalism.

45

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our environment

Our environment
As Canada’s largest communications company(1), we strive to create an environmentally sustainable future through
responsible management of environmental impacts and mitigating the effects of climate change. Our stakeholders expect
that our environmental focus be defined by purposeful action, so we are making progress toward optimal resource use
by advancing our circular economy model and by seeking to reduce our GHG footprint.
to deliver on our strategic imperative to engage and invest in our
people and create a sustainable future, we endeavour to limit
our environmental impact throughout our operations, network
and entire value chain, and in the solutions we deliver. We strive for
energy efficiency and resilience to climate-related disruptions, while
aiming to deliver cost efficiency for ourselves and our customers.

Build the
best networks

Operate with agility
and cost efficiency

How we monitor impact and progress:
Topic

2023
performance

✪ Target

Circular
economy

Management
approach

Stable

2023
third-party
verification

256,366

0.016%

PwC
(Scope 1 and 2
emissions and
YoY change)(4)

1) Reduce our absolute scope 1 and scope 2 GHG
emissions 58% by 2030, from a 2020 base year(6)

–2.5%

No change

PwC

2) Reach 64% of our suppliers by spend covering purchased
goods and services with science-based targets by 2026 (2)

28%

Increased by 2
percentage points

PwC(7)

3) Reduce our absolute scope 3 GHG emissions from
categories other than purchased goods and services 42%
by 2030, from a 2020 base year(8)

26%

Increased by 38
percentage points(9)

–

Waste reduction: Reach and maintain a 15% reduction in
total waste sent to landfill by 2025, from a 2019 base year

–16%

Improved by 8
percentage points

PwC

Hazardous waste: Divert 100% of generated hazardous waste
to certified recyclers by the end of 2024

99%

No change

PwC

E-waste recovery: Recover 7 million used TV receivers,
modems, mobile phones and Wi-Fi pods between October 1,
2020 and September 30, 2023

7,760,323
111% of 2023
target reached

Increased by
2,953,523

PwC

Maintain ISO 14001 certification

Certified

Maintained
15th year in a row

Bureau Veritas

Maintain ISO 50001 certification

Certified

Maintained
4th year in a row

Bureau Veritas

Carbon neutral operations starting in 2025(3)

Greenhouse
gas
emissions(2)

YoY
change

Engage and invest in
our people and create
a sustainable future

Trend

Science-based targets(5)

Decreasing

Improving

Achieved

To learn more about Our environment, please see the following links:
— Our products and services web page
— Climate action report, in alignment with the TCFD recommendations
— Our environment web page

— Climate-related risks and opportunities disclosures summary

— ESG data summary

— Our corporate responsibility approach

(1) Based on total revenue and total combined customer connections.
(2) For more information regarding our GHG targets, please refer to the section “About this report”.
(3) Performance is based on operational GHG emissions (scope 1 and scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO2e) minus GHG emissions offset by carbon credits purchased (in tonnes of CO2e).
(4) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.
(5) The Science Based Targets initiative approved our targets in 2022, prior to the recalculation of our 2020 GHG emission base year. The impact of this recalculation is an increase of
our target to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 58% instead of 57% by 2030, from a 2020 base year. The recalculated target was submitted to the SBTi for approval on
October 20, 2023.
(6) In line with a 1.5°C trajectory.
(7) Starting in 2023, PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.
(8) Scope 3 categories covered by this target exclude indirect scope 3 GHG emissions from our purchased goods and services, and include GHG emissions from capital goods, fuel and
energy-related activities, upstream transportation and distribution, waste generated in operations, business travel, employee commuting, downstream transportation and distribution,
use of sold products, end-of-life treatment of sold products, franchises and investments.
(9) Emissions in categories 3 (fuel and energy related activity), 4 (upstream transportation and distribution) and 15 (investments) have increased due to a number of elements including spend,
revenue and emission factors. We are now moving more aggressively toward tackling our scope 3 emission and will continue to evolve our strategy aimed at reducing scope 3 GHG emissions.

46

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Bell has been working to reduce the environmental impact of its operations for more than 30 years. Taking environmental actions reduces
risk, encourages investment in our company, aligns with customer expectations and helps us attract and retain skilled team members.

Our activities and outcomes
Environmental focus and continual improvement
Our Environmental Management System (EMS) powers our
actions as we aim to prevent and mitigate environmental impacts.
Our objective of continuous improvement includes annually
reassessing our actions to improve how we address current and
developing issues, with the objective of creating sustainable value for
all stakeholders as we grow our business. Our EMS has been certified
ISO 14001 since 2009, a first for any North American communications
company. In 2020, we extended our governance to certify our Energy
Management System to the ISO 50001 standard. Both of these
systems support Bell’s operations in all jurisdictions that it operates in.
Bell’s focus on environmental issues starts with mature programs
seeking to reduce environmental impacts throughout our value
chain. While we continue to extend our network, our approach
seeks to ensure we act to protect biodiversity, reduce consumption
of resources, better manage our waste, prevent contamination and
maintain compliance with environmental regulations. Managing our
issues through our EMS enables us to exercise due diligence and legal
compliance, when managing environmental issues. Team members
access a series of training and awareness activities promoting and
reinforcing the proactive management of environmental impacts.

As part of our objective to continue to improve and adopt
environmentally friendly practices in our productions, in 2023,
Bell Media became a proud partner of the Rolling Green program.
Managed by the Québec Film and Television Council (QFTC), the
Rolling Green program enables productions to reduce their ecological
footprint and strengthen their environmental commitment.
Bell also seeks to foster environmental innovation by engaging with
cleantech clusters, such as Écotech Québec, that are focused on
accelerating clean technologies. Through these partnerships, we
support local innovation and leverage cleantech entrepreneurs to
improve our environmental performance. Écotech Québec gives
Bell access to 21 leading cleantech clusters around the world
through the International Cleantech Network. Bell’s environmental
policies, processes, training and awareness programs lead to the
development of innovative technological solutions that seek to limit
our environmental impact and maintain our ISO certifications.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our environment

A mature environmental management approach

Climate change
As is the case for most companies, climate change poses risks to our operating environment and our ability to create value. To help mitigate
these risks, we aim to reduce our energy consumption and GHG emissions while continuing to adapt to the impacts of climate change.

Our activities and outcomes
Mitigating climate change
GRI 201-2, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-5

As a responsible corporate citizen, Bell aims to do its part to help
fight climate change. Measuring our carbon footprint, setting
targets and building pathways toward reducing GHG emissions
enables us to operate more cost efficiently while contributing to
a low-carbon economy.

In order to mitigate climate change, companies need to understand
their carbon footprint. We’ve been measuring and disclosing on our
GHG emissions and energy consumption for over 20 years and have
been publicly disclosing them since 2003 through the CDP, a non­
profit organization that gathers information on climate-related risks
and opportunities from organizations worldwide.

Bell’s total GHG emissions
Tonnes of CO2 equivalent
Scope(1)

2020

Scope 1

2021

2022

2023

141,270

138,722

134,288

138,759

Scope 2

121,681

126,288

122,037

117,607

Scope 3(2)

1,915,577

1,866,521

1,859,908

1,916,629

Total

2,178,528

2,131,531

2,116,233

2,172,995

(1) Bell’s vertical integration affects the way the GHGs emitted by our business activities are allocated among our operational GHG emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) and our upstream and
downstream indirect GHG emissions (scope 3). For more details, see the Impact of the business model section of Our corporate responsibility approach complementary report.
(2) 2020, 2021 and 2022 data have been restated, see About this report section for details.

47

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our environment

As one of Canada’s largest employers, we are driven to play a
role in mitigating the growing impacts of climate change. That is
why we have been on this journey for the past 20 years and have
set milestones within the next few years to track our progress.
Our first targeted milestone is to achieve carbon neutrality for our
operational GHG emissions (scope 1 and 2 only) starting in 2025.
We’ve also set near-term science-based targets designed as a
first milestone to do our part to help curb global temperature rise
well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to
help limit warming to 1.5°C. These targets are approved by the SBTi:
— Reduce our absolute operational GHG emissions
(scope 1 and 2) 58% by 2030, from a 2020 baseline
year – in line with a 1.5°C trajectory(1)
— Reach 64% of our suppliers by spend covering
purchased goods and services with science-based
targets by 2026
— Reduce our absolute scope 3 GHG emissions from all
categories (other than from purchased goods and
services) 42% by 2030, from a 2020 baseline year
These targets will help us transition to net zero, which is our main
objective. We have yet to set our net zero target, but we will continue
to innovate, refine our technologies and pursue internal initiatives
with that objective in mind.
In seeking to achieve our targets, we will need collaboration from
our employees, suppliers and supply chain partners. Over the past
20 years, we’ve embedded the responsibility of reducing energy
consumption across all management levels of the organization,

including the Board of Directors. Since 2008, our senior managementlevel Energy Board has worked to ensure the effectiveness of our
energy management system by identifying and implementing energy
efficiency initiatives across our operations. As the importance of
taking action to limit climate change has increased, the Energy Board’s
mandate has evolved to include objectives to attain GHG emission
reduction targets.
Further engagement with our employees is occurring through the
Carbon Reduction Task Force and the Innovation Working Group.
These committees assist in identifying initiatives to reduce energy
consumption, set business function level targets, spur innovation
and propose projects for the Green Budget, a dedicated annual fund
to decarbonize our operations. Our climate change strategy and
progress toward targets are reported through the year to various
senior level committees within Bell including the Board of Directors.
We are collaborating with partners, such as the GeSI, the Global
System for Mobile Communications Association (GSMA), the
Excellence in Corporate Environmental Leadership (EXCEL)
Partnership, the Canadian Business for Social Responsibility (CBSR),
and Canada’s Net-Zero Leaderboard, to develop best practices
in defining and supporting actions to transition to a low-carbon
economy. In addition, our partnership with Tree Canada enables Bell
to play a role in mitigating climate change across Canada, by planting
trees which reduce GHGs by acting as a carbon sink. To date, Bell
team members have planted thousands of trees across the country
in celebration of National Tree Day.

Below is our proportion of emissions among all GHG emissions categories across our whole value chain.

Upstream emissions

Operational emissions

Scope 3

Scope 1

Purchased goods
and services

SBT2

Fuel consumption

Fuel consumed by ﬂeet vehicles,
buildings, telecommunication
towers and generators

66%

Downstream emissions
Scope 3

7%

SBT1

Fuel­ and
energy­related activities

SBT3

Bell
operations

9%

SBT3

0.5%

Other indirect emissions

Capital goods, transportation
and distribution, waste generated
in operations

SBT3

5%

SBT3

Bell Media

4.5%

Use of sold products

Communication and
Technology Services

Business travel and
employee commuting

SBT3

Investments

2%

Other indirect emissions
Scope 2

Electricity consumption
Electricity consumed within
our buildings and network

SBT1

5%

Transportation and distribution,
end­of­life treatment of sold
products, franchises

SBT3

Carbon neutral

1%
Science Based Targets

(1) The Science Based Targets initiative approved our targets in 2022, prior to the recalculation of our 2020 GHG emission base year. The impact of this recalculation is an increase of
our target to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 58% instead of 57% by 2030, from a 2020 base year. The recalculated target was submitted to the SBTi for approval on
October 20, 2023.

48

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Our ability to achieve our operational (scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions
reduction targets is subject to certain risks described in the section
entitled Caution regarding forward-looking statements of this
Strategic overview and depends on various assumptions including,
without limitation, the following:
— supply chain challenges with the availability of electric cars that
suit the needs of our operations have influenced our strategy to
look for alternative zero emission models
— the implementation of various corporate initiatives to reduce direct
GHG emissions
— our ability to purchase sufficient high-quality credible carbon
credits and acceptable RECs according to the SBTi guidelines

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our environment

In order to achieve our target of carbon neutral operations starting in
2025, we expect that we will need to purchase a significant amount of
carbon credits to offset emissions that will not have been avoided by
internal initiatives, in addition to RECs to reduce our scope 2 emissions.

Our energy management system allows us to track initiatives, monitor
progress and ensure we reduce our energy consumption. We are proud
to be the first communications company(1) in North America to have
our energy management system ISO 50001 certified, instilling a more
systematic approach and facilitating continuous improvement on this
metric. Bell’s energy intensity ratio, described below, is a metric we use
to track our progress. This metric illustrates the energy footprint of our
operations in a meaningful way, comparing our energy consumption
(from electricity and fuel consumption) to our network usage(2). The
decrease in Bell’s energy intensity ratio over the years reflects the
carbon reduction-enabling capabilities of our products and services.

Our action plan to reduce our direct emissions (scope 1 & 2)

Bell’s energy intensity

Our action plan includes initiatives such as:

Energy consumption (MWh equivalent)
divided by network usage (petabytes)

— reducing our fuel consumption through our ongoing fleet
modernization and electrification. In 2023, we replaced 1,079 older
vehicles with more fuel-efficient models, and we currently have
332 electric and 66 hybrid vehicles in service;

151
111

— reducing electricity usage by optimizing facility and equipment
heating and cooling, implementing LED lighting conversions,
modernizing our network equipment, as well as working to
consolidate, optimize and virtualize servers;
— reducing our real estate footprint;

GRI 302-3, 305-4

20

21

103

99

22

23

— maintaining LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design)
and BOMA BEST (Building Owners and Managers Association’s
Building Environmental Standards) certification which includes
improved energy efficiency; and
— the procurement of renewable energy certificates (RECs).

(1) Bell’s review in 2020 of publicly available information for North American communications and telecommunications companies indicated Bell was the first of its North American
communications and telecommunications competitors to receive ISO 50001 certification.
(2) Network usage is the amount of data moving across the network; it is measured in petabytes. One petabyte is equal to 1,048,576 gigabytes (GB).

49

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our environment

Our action plan to reduce our indirect emissions (scope 3)
Initiatives to reduce our upstream and downstream indirect GHG
emissions include collaboration with industry peers, supplier
education and improved contractual agreements. We seek to reduce
other indirect emissions by dematerializing our real estate footprint
and products distributed, and by collaborating with our dealer stores
and companies in which we hold non-controlling interests to reduce
their emissions.
Our ability to achieve our indirect scope 3 GHG emissions reduction
targets is subject to more uncertainty than our ability to achieve our
scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction targets as we must rely on
external actions and factors, and is subject to certain risks described
in the section Caution regarding forward-looking statements in this
Strategic overview and depends on certain assumptions including
but not limited to:
— sufficient supplier engagement and collaboration in setting their
own science-based targets, no significant change in the allocation
of our spend by supplier and sufficient collaboration with partners
in reducing their own GHG emissions.
— the implementation of various corporate and business initiatives
to reduce our electricity and fuel consumption, as well as reduce
other indirect GHG emissions enablers.

addressing climate-related risks and opportunities
By analyzing our exposure to climate-related risks and identifying
opportunities, we can both guide our internal actions and keep
our stakeholders informed, including regular reporting on our
energy performance and associated GHG emissions.

50

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

As a supporter of the recommendations of the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Bell started disclosing based
on TCFD recommendations in 2018. Since 2003, we have reported
on our climate change mitigation and adaptation efforts through
the CDP, which gathers information on climate-related risks and
opportunities from organizations worldwide. In 2023, we obtained
an A- score from the CDP, ranking us in the “Leadership Band” for
the eighth consecutive year, recognizing our efforts taken regarding
climate action and alignment with current best practices, and the
transparency of our climate-related disclosures. We continue
monitoring the physical and transitional risks identified through our
climate-related scenario analysis in an attempt to better understand
the potential impacts of climate change across different warming
and socioeconomic scenarios across the short (five years), medium
(10 years) and long term (20 years).

Becoming resilient to climate change
Adapting to the impacts and consequences of climate change by
building greater resiliency into our business is crucial to ensuring
business continuity and value creation.
Our ability to create value also depends on our adaptability, as
the economy shifts toward a less GHG-intensive economy. Our
operations depend on how well we prepare our networks and
facilities to withstand damages from natural disasters, as those events
increase in frequency, magnitude and intensity year-over-year.
This includes severe-weather events such as ice and snow storms,
windstorms, flooding, wildfires and tornadoes. We identify and seek to
address these challenges through our Climate Resiliency Task Force.
By analyzing our exposure to climate-related risks and identifying
opportunities, we can both guide our internal actions and keep our
stakeholders informed.

Since the success of our value creation relies on the efficient use of resources, we are advancing our circular economy approach to
focus on solutions that detach growth from accelerating raw material consumption in order to reduce the environmental impact of our
operations. Waste reduction is essential to improving our operational efficiency by generating economic benefits, and aligning with
the values and expectations of our employees and customers.
To manage the existing overlaps between the SDGs and our circular economy approach, Bell co-created a guide with the Global Compact
Network Canada to establish how the circular economy principles complement the SDGs. Discussions on opportunities, challenges and best
practices helped identify solutions that can be implemented within organizations. This approach was intended to inspire further action on
the applicable SDGs, and promote the transition toward a circular economy in the Canadian market.
To learn more, read Leveraging a Circular Economy to Fast-track the SDGs: A Guide for an Integrated Approach.

Our activities and outcomes
responsible procurement of goods
and services GRI 2-28
Our focus on reducing waste and pollution in our supply chain
enables us to build and sustain more resilient processes while
limiting costs throughout our business.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our environment

Circular economy

To reduce waste and pollution in our supply chain, we start by
evaluating our suppliers based on environmental risks and by setting
contractual sustainability criteria to minimize environmental impacts.
The criteria address the use of toxic substances, heavy minerals, the
recyclability of materials, the identification of plastics used, energy
efficiency and the impact on our carbon footprint.
Bell requires that sustainable criteria be applied to contracts for the
purchase of electronic products, aiming to ensure they are energy
efficient. We participate in the Canadian Energy Efficiency Voluntary
Agreement (CEEVA), whose program for TV set-top boxes (STBs) aims
to complement the ENERGY STAR program in Canada. CEEVA’s Small
Network Equipment (SNE) program aims to improve the energy
efficiency of these devices without compromising rapidly evolving
technological advancements or customer usability. Through this
voluntary agreement, Bell aims to improve the energy efficiency of
STBs and SNE in accordance with the agreement’s standards.

transforming consumption through circular models

Bell’s circular economy pillars

Giving
new life to
resources
Bell’s
circular
economy
pillars
Transforming
consumption
through circular
models

Bell is also focused on reducing waste by limiting the use of singleuse plastics and requiring sustainable packaging for all contracts
related to tangible goods we resell to customers or use internally.
Embedding circularity deeper into our operations strengthens our
path toward an enhanced value chain. This includes integrating ways
to eliminate unnecessary waste into our process.

Bell operates reuse and repair/refurbishment programs that
allow us to extend the useful life of products and materials.

Responsible
procurement
of goods and
services

Over the years, we have implemented several reuse, maintenance,
repair and refurbishment initiatives, including setting up internal
repair shops at a number of work centres to repair tools and ladders.
Initiatives such as a reverse logistics process to ensure the repair
and reuse of our wooden cable reels used to wind, transport and
lay cables, provide a source of value creation for the company in
terms of potentially reducing consumption associated with productlife extension and minimizing the purchase of new material, thereby
reducing cost. Bell provides national take-back programs, dropboxes and mail-in instructions that make recovery of end-of-life
consumer electronics easy and efficient. By renting STBs, modems
and Wi-Fi pods, Bell maintains ownership of the equipment, allowing
us to manage their maintenance, repair and reuse, diverting
electronic waste from landfill. We also provide return and repair
services through in-store drop-off and prepaid mailing labels to all
customers using rental products. In 2023, our recovery programs
diverted more than 5,379 metric tonnes of customer electronic
devices away from landfill.

51

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our environment

We had set a three-year e-waste goal of collecting seven million used
STBs, TV receivers, modems, mobile phones and Wi-Fi pods between
January 2021 and the end of 2023, to help divert as much e-waste
from landfill as possible. We are proud to have exceeded this goal
with the collection of 7,760,323 devices between October 1, 2020 and
September 30, 2023(1).

We will continue our efforts to reduce e-waste from landfill.
We are exploring the merit of a new e-waste target while keeping
the number of customer-facing electronic devices we recover as
a key metric to monitor our performance.

Customer devices recovered between
October 1, 2020 and September 30, 2023(1) (2)
2021

2,462,098

2022

2,326,681

Total 4,788,779

2023

Cumulative target: 7 million

7,760,323

giving new life to resources and
diverting waste GRI 301-3, 306-1, 306-2, 306-3
We seek to minimize our environmental impact by collaborating
with suppliers to redirect, reuse, repurpose and recycle materials
from our waste streams wherever possible, ensure compliance
with legal environmental regulations and avoid hazardous
incidents.
To help reduce our environmental footprint, we have set a corporate
objective to reduce 15% of waste sent to landfill by 2025, from a 2019
base year. We have already exceeded this target by diverting a total
of 16% waste from landfill compared to a 2019 baseline. Efforts will
continue to further divert waste from landfill while we work in 2024
to set a new waste reduction target.

Overall waste production

20%

56%

24%
●

24% Office

●

56% Operations

●

20% Customer facing

We have also partnered with World Wildlife Fund Canada (WWFCanada) to support their ambitious 10-year Regenerate Canada plan
to fight biodiversity loss and climate change. By returning used mobile
devices to Bell through the Bell Blue Box program, our customers are
also playing a role, as we donate the net proceeds of the residual
value of these mobile devices to WWF-Canada, advancing their goal of
restoring one million hectares of land, stewarding 100 million hectares
of vital ecosystems and introducing nature-based climate solutions
that will reduce carbon emissions by 30 million tonnes.

Managing hazardous waste through
compliance programs GRI 306-2
At Bell, we have established compliance programs that seek to
manage residual materials defined by law as hazardous.
Network batteries account for the greatest proportion of hazardous
materials generated at Bell. Other hazardous materials that
we generate include aerosols, absorbents, oily containers and
fluorescent tubes. When these materials are not properly handled
or disposed of, contaminants can enter the atmosphere, migrate
through the soil or even leach into groundwater. Our internal
standards, which include the proper storage, transportation and
disposal of hazardous waste, are applied across our operations.

Several of our initiatives are mature and embedded in the way we
do business such as our recycling programs for telecommunications
copper cables, terminals, utility poles, cable reels, wood pallets, and
lead-acid batteries. In 2023, we created the Circular Economy Task
Force, a cross-functional team engaged to identify and implement
new initiatives to further divert waste from landfill and advance our
circular economy approach. The Task Force has developed a threeyear strategy on how we can make more of an impact to reduce our
environmental footprint.
To support our corporate objective to divert waste from landfill, we
have partnered with various organizations such as the Centre de
Formation en Entreprise et Récupération (CFER), a training centre that
teaches youth useful skills on equipment recovery and refurbishment.
Dating back to 2001, CFER collects and sorts recyclable materials
generated at 16 of our work centres in Québec, increasing our
diversion rate.

(1) 2021 is the base year for the KPI Recover 7 million used TV receivers, modems, mobile phones and Wi-Fi pods between October 1, 2020 and September 30, 2023.
(2) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.

52

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Our team members come from diverse backgrounds and possess unique skills that deliver value across our business.
We engage and invest in our people to create a sustainable future along with a thriving, productive and creative workforce.
Engaged team members are better positioned to develop innovative
services that accelerate growth and to personally champion the
customer experience.
Engage and invest in
our people and create
a sustainable future

Drive growth
with innovative services

Champion customer
experience

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our people

Our people

How we monitor impact and progress:
2023
performance

YoY
change

2023
third-party
verification

Topic

✪ Target

Team member
well-being

90% of people leaders complete mandatory base training
on mental health(1)

94%

+3 percentage
point

PwC(2)

Health and safety

Report our lost time accident frequency rate
(accident per 200,000 hours of work)(3)

1.37

Worsened
by 0.17

PwC

35% gender diverse directors on the Board

33%(5)

–3 percentage
points

PwC(6)

35% gender diverse representation in executive positions
(vice president level and above) by the end of 2025

32%

No change

PwC

25% BIPOC representation in Bell senior management
(director level and executives) by 2025

23%

No change

PwC

40% BIPOC representation in new graduate and
intern hires(7)

66%

+14 percentage
points

PwC

Reach and maintain an overall team member engagement
score of 75%(8)

73%

–3 percentage
points

PwC

Gender diversity(4)

BIPOC representation

Team member
engagement
Stable

Decreasing

Improving

Trend

Achieved

To learn more about Our people, please see the following links:
— Our people web page
— ESG data summary
— Empowering voices and fostering a space for all
— Our corporate responsibility approach

(1) Mental health base training is reflected as the Module 1 of mental health training.
(2) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.
(3) 2020, 2021 and 2022 data has been restated, see About this report section for details.
(4) Gender diverse is defined as a person who identifies as a woman or with a gender other than a man or a woman.
(5) In November 2023, Johan Wibergh was appointed to the BCE Board, following which, 33% of all directors identified as women. With the increase in the number of directors upon his
appointment, the BCE Board is temporarily below the target, to allow for an orderly transition ahead of the retirements of David F, Denison and Robert C. Simmonds at the 2024 Annual
General Shareholder Meeting (the Meeting) in May. The target will be met again if all director nominees are elected at the Meeting, after which directors identifying as women will
represent 38% of all directors.
(6) Starting in 2023, PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.
(7) 2023 BIPOC representation data for new grads and intern hires includes both self-identification questionnaire data and recruitment diversity data.
(8) This metric is calculated as the average score obtained in the annual Bell team member satisfaction survey. The team member engagement score is based on five specific questions
and the percentage of employees who responded favourably (strongly agree or agree) to the questions out of the total number of employees who responded to the survey.

53

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our people

Team member well-being
To support the Bell team, we strive for a dynamic culture where all team members feel valued and respected in a safe, supportive
environment. We offer inclusive benefits, ongoing education and awareness programs, and a range of progressive initiatives to foster
well-being and success.

Our activities and outcomes
Fostering a healthy and fulfilling workplace

GRI 410-1

Bell’s Employee Value Proposition provides a clear statement
of our unique culture, what team members value most about
working at Bell, and how we strive to make Bell a place where
every employee has opportunities to grow, make an impact and
feel like they belong.
A diverse, respectful and inclusive workplace is critical to Bell’s culture
and our team’s success. We uphold the human rights of our team
members and strive to ensure our workplace is free from harassment,
violence and discrimination.
Our respectful workplace program and enhanced Human Rights and
Accommodation policy include prevention-focused training, a zerotolerance approach to workplace harassment and violence, and an
internal mediation program and guidance for anyone experiencing
family or intimate partner violence. We have a team of trained
professionals who provide support to team members and investigate
complaints of harassment and violence. We also launched instructorled training on creating a respectful work environment to 510 leaders
and will continue to offer this to additional leaders in 2024, and also
extend this training to team members in 2024.

Strengthening mental health in the workplace
Taking action to promote and support the mental health and
well-being of our team members makes Bell stronger and creates
a positive impact that goes beyond our company.
At Bell, we support mental health in a variety of ways, including
unlimited mental health benefits, and resources and training for
leaders and team members on resiliency, stress management,
emotional intelligence and managing mental health challenges.
Since we launched our workplace mental health program in 2010, we
have hosted almost 1,721 mental health awareness and anti-stigma
campaigns and events, and continue to measure over 90 metrics
every quarter to monitor progress. In 2023, 32,355 employees
participated in such events and reported a 94% satisfaction rate.

54

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

All Bell leaders are required to complete the Workplace Mental Health
Leadership training, a widely-used program that, upon completion,
results in certification from Queen’s University. In 2023, as part of
Bell’s commitment to lead by example and encourage a corporate
call to action across Canada, we made the program available to
external partners and clients at no cost.
Bell provides a variety of mental health benefits and support resources
to team members and their families, including our Employee and Family
Assistance Program, which has above industry average utilization
rates; coverage for unlimited usage of mental health support services
and short- and long-term disability benefits programs. We also
enhanced our disability benefits program and successfully launched
a pharmacogenetics program at no cost to employees on short-term
mental health leave to help them find the right medication at the right
dosage to better support them through their disability journey.
To learn more, see our Mental health policy.

providing competitive compensation,
benefits and resources GRI 201-3, 401-2
Bell provides team members with competitive total compensation
packages that reflect inclusive practices to attract, engage and
retain top talent.
Bell’s compensation package includes a competitive base salary,
strong performance incentives, and retirement plans managed under
a comprehensive governance structure, including a responsible
investing policy. Together, this represents a total compensation
package that is comparable with other large Canadian employers.
We recognize our team members’ performance by aligning their
compensation with progress on Bell’s six strategic imperatives and
financial performance, as well as their individual achievements. The
majority of team members participate in the Achievement Incentive
Plan, which in recent years has paid out near target.
Team members also have comprehensive, employer-paid group
health plans, paid sickness and disability leaves, vacation days and
a flexible holiday policy.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our people

Additionally, we offer savings and wealth-building opportunities, such
as an employee share-purchase plan (ESP) with company matching
contributions, a Group Tax-Free Savings Account (Group TFSA) and
a Group Retirement Savings Plan (Group RSP).
We modernized our benefits program in January 2023 to offer more
flexibility and enhanced wellness support. This includes new life
insurance, disability and health plan options, as well as a new lifestyle
account that can be used to cover wellness and other lifestyle spending.
We also implemented a new gender affirmation benefit to provide
financial support to plan members during their transitioning process.
Building on these improvements, in January 2024, new family
planning enhancements, which include adoption and surrogacy
benefits and additional fertility treatment coverage, were made
available. We also expanded eligible expenses under the lifestyle
account and the list of eligible professional practitioners.
Furthermore, we made new pension and savings options available
to team members in January 2024. This includes two new savings
options: a Group First Home Savings Account (Group FHSA) and a
Short-term Tax-Free Savings Account (Short-term TFSA). Eligible
team members who participate in the Bell Defined Contribution (DC)
pension plan now have the option to reallocate up to 2% of their
voluntary payroll contributions to the Group RSP, the Group TFSA, the
new Group FHSA or the new Short-term TFSA, while still benefiting
from the company match in their DC account.
These recent improvements help address the diverse interests and
needs of our team members and support our Strategic Imperative
to engage and invest in our people and create a sustainable future.
We provide equitable compensation based on skills, role, performance
and the external market, regardless of gender, age, disability, gender
identity and expression, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, cultural
heritage or creed. We perform frequent wage-gap analyses to seek
alignment with our diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging objectives.
To seek to maintain our market competitiveness, we conduct ongoing
market reviews using best-in-class(1) compensation surveys.

Maintaining strong health and
safety practices GRI 403-2
Protecting the health and safety of our team is our top priority.
We strive to create an environment where everyone feels safe.
Our occupational health and safety management system aligns
with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 45001
standard. All of our business units have designated health and
safety coordinators. This structure is designed to ensure continuous
reporting to the Health and Safety governance team and compliance
with operational requirements.
Working in partnership with team members and union representatives,
we support eight Corporate Health and Safety (H&S) Committees,
135 Local H&S Committees, and 591 Safety Representatives.
In compliance with occupational health and safety regulations,
these committees and representatives cover our operations
throughout Canada with representation from operational and
clerical functions. The committees meet periodically to address
health and safety challenges, collectively perform over 7,000 annual
workplace inspections, and collaborate with the Corporate Health
and Safety team on the development and implementation of
prevention programs. We maintain our focus on prevention by
continually improving hazard-prevention programs and assessing
the company’s various functions for potential risks.
Prevention plans, pre-work hazard assessments, extensive
communications related to safe work practices, and record volumes of
training hours and manager field observations continued throughout
2023. While Bell’s overall lost-time accident frequency rate increased
to 1.37(2), this is attributable to an increase in installations and repairs
that required the use of a ladder. Technicians completed more
customer orders that required more frequent ladder manipulation
and climbing, which in turn increased the risk of injury. Throughout
2024, we will continue to increase focus on proper ladder handling
and climbing procedures.

(1) The survey providers (Mercer, Willis Towers Watson & Aon Radford) have been conducting these surveys for several decades. The compensation surveys reference top employers in
Canada and internationally, and group together large employers with similar revenue size, which enables us to make better comparisons.
(2) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement. Bell’s vertical integration affects our overall lost-time accident frequency. For more details, see
the Impact of the business model section of Our corporate responsibility approach complementary report.

55

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our people

Diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging
At Bell, we are proud of our focus on fostering a diverse, inclusive, equitable and accessible workplace where all team members feel
valued, respected and supported. The integration of diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging programs within Bell fosters the innovation
and creativity of our team members.

Our activities and progress
demonstrating organizational
leadership and commitment
Ensuring that our workforce at all levels reflects the diversity of
society at large helps us to enrich collaboration among teams,
drives business growth and is crucial for delivering innovative
solutions that meet our diverse customers’ needs.
Our Diversity Leadership Council (DLC) defines Bell’s DEIB strategy
and develops company-wide implementation plans to align with
corporate goals. The DLC comprises 17 senior leaders who represent
each business unit and the markets we serve across Canada. In
addition to the DLC, our governance framework includes a dedicated
DEIB team, business unit committees and Employee Resource Groups,
including Black Professionals at Bell, Diversability at Bell, Pride at Bell
and Women at Bell. In 2023, we introduced a new DEIB Community of
Practice whose goal is to share best practices across the organization.
We have maintained our strategic focus on making our senior leader­
ship team more representative of our overall team member demo­
graphics. We achieve this through effective talent management
strategies and development programs for high-potential leaders, as
well as mentoring, coaching and sponsorship.
In line with our objective to improve gender diversity, we were a
signatory to the Catalyst Accord 2022(1) and are a member of the
30% Club. Our current gender diversity target is a minimum of 35%
gender diverse directors on the BCE Board, defined as directors who
identify as women and directors who identify with a gender other

than a man or a woman. This target was met from its adoption until
the appointment of Johan Wibergh to the BCE Board on November
1, 2023, following which 33% of all directors identified as women.
With the increase in the number of directors upon his appointment,
the Board is temporarily below the target to allow for an orderly
transition ahead of the retirements of David F, Denison and Robert C.
Simmonds at the Annual General Shareholder Meeting (the Meeting)
in May 2024. The target will be met again if all director nominees are
elected at the Meeting, after which directors identifying as women
will represent 38% of all directors.
We also have a target of at least 35% gender diverse leaders at the vice
president level and above by the end of 2025, and at the end of 2023, we
were at 32% for executives(2). In 2023, female representation decreased
by 9.1 percentage points within the Executive Office, decreased by
1.1 percentage points at the senior vice president level, and increased
by 1.4 percentage points at the vice president level. In addition, BIPOC
representation has decreased by 1.5 percentage points at the senior vice
president level and by 0.5 percentage points at the vice president level.
Bell continues to take meaningful actions to address the impacts
of systemic racism experienced by BIPOC. Our goal is to reach at
least 25% BIPOC representation in our senior management (director
level and executives) team by 2025. As of the end of 2023, we were
at 23%(2). We exceeded our target of 40% BIPOC representation in
our new graduate and intern hires, achieving 66% representation(2).
Bell continues working toward Progressive Aboriginal Relations (PAR)
program certification and meeting the framework requirements as
established by the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business (CCAB).

(1) The Catalyst Accord 2022 calls on Canadian boards and CEOs to pledge to accelerate the advancement of women in business through these actions: Increase the average percentage
of women on boards and women in executive positions in corporate Canada to 30% or greater by 2022.
(2) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.

56

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

36%

21

BIPOC
representation
in senior
management
(director-level
and executives)
(in %)(1) (2)

36%

Target
33%

22

23

23%

23%

22

23

35%

Target by 2025
20%

21

25%

Engaging with teams on diversity
We engage with team members to enhance understanding and
demonstrate how diverse perspectives contribute to better
outcomes and enable teams to share a common vision.
As part of our effort to advance our DEIB strategy, we annually
consult with members of various identity groups to understand their
experiences at work. In conjunction with our Team Survey results,
we analyzed the insights of these consultations to identify areas of
opportunity.

Attracting diverse talent
As we continue to lead in a fiercely competitive marketplace, and
transition from a telecommunications company to a tech services
and digital media leader, we are actively engaged in initiatives
aimed at nurturing diverse talent.
Our focus is on recruiting and selecting candidates who mirror the
customers and communities we serve and meeting our objective
to prioritize the recruitment of individuals from underrepresented
groups. We achieve this by advertising job opportunities and
partnering on career-focused events and programs with
organizations that connect us with high-potential talent from BIPOC,
persons with disabilities, and 2SLGBTQIA+ communities. We also
work with partners that connect us with refugees and newcomers
to Canada.
Bell also continues to advocate for more women and other
underrepresented groups to take on roles in science, technology,
engineering and mathematics (STEM). We collaborate with many
organizations to promote STEM-related roles within Bell and advance
opportunities for women in this field.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our people

Gender diverse
Directors on the
BCE Board (in %)(1)

Our ongoing efforts to bring diverse talent into the organization
contribute to a more engaged and inclusive workforce where
different perspectives are welcome, enabling our teams to
unlock new possibilities. In 2023, we conducted a gap analysis on
recruitment processes, with a focus on accessibility, and developed
an implementation plan to address the identified gaps to better meet
the needs of team members and job applicants with disabilities.

Our DEIB strategy and self-disclosure rate increased by 12% to a total
of 89%. We attribute this increase to newly launched engagement
efforts in 2023 that generated awareness, resulting in a stronger
understanding of the representation of women, BIPOC and persons
with disabilities in our workforce.

(1) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.
(2) The Catalyst Accord 2022 calls on Canadian boards and CEOs to pledge to accelerate the advancement of women in business through these actions: Increase the average percentage
of women on boards and women in executive positions in corporate Canada to 30% or greater by 2022.

57

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our people

Team member engagement and development
Bell employs highly skilled, dynamic and engaged individuals who we want to see grow and succeed. We are better when we invest in
our team’s development through learning programs, recognition and engagement to ensure that each team member feels a sense of
belonging with unparalleled opportunities to grow and make an impact.

Our activities and outcomes
listening to ensure we adapt
We listen to our team members and leverage their voices in the
design and development of our workplace practices.
Our annual Team Survey is a key tool for capturing both quantitative
and qualitative data, which we use to evaluate the degree of team
member engagement with questions about communication,
recognition, trust and respect.

Fostering a culture of continuous
learning and development
We strive to help team members accelerate their personal and
professional development, so they can advance their careers at
Bell, which promotes team member performance and retention.

83% of team members participated in the 2023 survey. The overall
engagement score was 73%(1), two points below our target. 77% of
team members reported that they are proud to work for Bell and
77% were pleased to see how their individual work contributes to the
company’s success.

Bell offers many resources for continuous learning which help team
members develop new skills, expand their knowledge and broaden
their outlook beyond essential training and on-the-job learning. No
matter the role at Bell, there are important standards of behaviour
and key expectations that embody our values and principles.
We require certain training programs for our team members: Code
of Business Conduct (CoBC), Mental Health, Inclusive leadership, and
our Be Principles. These are mandatory interactive modules that help
instill the behaviours that best adhere to our CoBC.

In 2023, we continued the CEO Dialogue initiative and invited team
members from various levels in the organization to participate in one
of four focus groups with our CEO, Mirko Bibic. This direct dialogue
strives to create a better understanding of internal challenges and
fosters discussion with executive leadership that goes beyond
traditional reporting structures.

All Bell team members have access to thousands of high-quality
courses featuring leading experts on a wide range of business,
technology, creative, personal growth and professional development
topics from world-class learning providers. With over one million
videos viewed in 2023, we are at the 75th percentile(2) compared to
similar organizations.

Connecting to our employee values

Through Bell U, Bell’s virtual university, team members can continually
upskill and reskill with a special focus on high-tech, including AI,
cybersecurity, cloud and software development. We offer eightmonth structured programs that include a two-month full-time
internal internship to qualified applicants. At the end of the program,
participants are qualified to work in a high-tech field. We also offer
a self-paced approach to each of the 4,500 members of our hightech community. More than 35,000 skills were assessed and over
45,000 training items completed. At Gartner’s annual ReimagineHR
conference, Bell U received international recognition and was
highlighted as an impactful use case on virtual learning.

We continue to leverage our Employee Value Proposition as
an anchor for our employee experience programs to reinforce
what team members have told us they value about working
at Bell.
Bell strives to be a place where team members can make an impact,
immerse themselves in opportunities, and feel a sense of belonging.
Moreover, in 2023, we launched various initiatives to respond to team
members’ desire to engage in environmental action, including tree
planting activities.

(1) PwC provided limited assurance over this indicator. See PwC’s assurance statement.
(2) Provided by LinkedIn as part of a quarterly review conducted in Q4 2023, benchmarked against other large companies with a minimum of 10,000 licenses purchased for LinkedIn’s
learning platform.

58

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Our leadership programs are customized and adapted to support
leaders at all stages of their careers, whether they are relatively new
to the company, are established Bell leaders or have been identified
as Bell’s next generation of leaders.
In addition, we offer access to a mentor matching platform that
facilitates building human connections. In 2023, over 1,200 mentoring
relationships were established. We believe in recognizing team
member contributions that enable us to deliver on our purpose:
advancing how Canadians connect with each other and the world.

Building strong relationships with
labour unions GRI 2-30, 407-1
The positive engagement of our unionized team members is key
to Bell’s success, and we aim to negotiate collective agreements
that deliver competitive labour conditions and uninterrupted
service to our customers.
Our employees have the inherent right to associate with labour
unions and enter into collective bargaining, and positive, long­
term relationships with unions representing BCE team members is
an ongoing priority. Approximately 42% of all Bell team members
are represented by labour unions in Canada. Our unionized team
members belong to 61 different bargaining units represented
by 13 different labour unions. Our various collective agreements
reinforce the importance of having a fair, inclusive and accessible
workplace where everyone feels valued, respected and supported.

Through our unified recognition program, Better Together, we
recognize and celebrate team members’ contributions and celebrate
service anniversary milestones. Over 93% of team members are
engaged, and 81% of our leaders are active in the tool each month,
facilitating over 260,000 peer-to-peer recognition gestures. Better
Together provides a meaningful and fun way for Bell teams to connect
and celebrate milestones.

— joint labour-union committees that provide an opportunity to
discuss important matters while improving relationships between
the parties;

The Bravo Award is the most prestigious award at Bell and is given in
recognition of outstanding performance by individuals and teams.
We also honour our retirees to recognize and thank them for their
contributions. These programs contribute to thousands of tangible
awards for Bell team members.

— advance notice and discussion with unions prior to implementation
of significant changes impacting team members; and

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our people

In 2023, we announced Bell’s new leadership attributes. They have
been designed to foster the company-wide transformational mindset
that we need to succeed, and include: Champions the customer,
Acts to grow our business, Drives results with superior execution,
Communicates clearly and Promotes belonging.

Different collective agreement provisions include:

— a well-defined grievance procedure;
— transfer and job posting procedures to facilitate professional
mobility;

— restructuring and layoffs, including the payment of severance pay
and redeployment considerations.

59

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our financial resources
60

Our financial resources
Our capital comes from our investors, lenders and free cash flow that is generated from our operations. Our objective is
to achieve financial growth through ongoing investment in our purpose to advance how Canadians connect with each
other and the world, while seeking to deliver shareholder returns through dividend growth.
By focusing on operational excellence and cost discipline
throughout every part of our business, we aim to deliver leading
broadband fibre and wireless networks in locations large and
small. We seek to provide truly differentiated communications
services to Canadians and drive revenue growth by leveraging
our networks to serve our customers.

Build the
best networks

Operate with agility
and cost efficiency

Drive growth
with innovative services

How we monitor our impact and progress: 2023 financial performance
Financial measure

2023 Target

2023 Performance and results

Revenue growth

1% to 5%

2.1%

BCE revenues grew by 2.1% in 2023, compared to 2022, driven by higher product revenue
of 9.4%, and higher service revenue of 0.9%, attributable to growth from our Bell CTS
segment, moderated by a decline in our Bell Media segment.

Adjusted
EBITDA growth

2% to 5%

2.1%

BCE adjusted EBITDA grew by 2.1% in 2023, compared to 2022, reflecting a greater
contribution from our Bell CTS segment, partly offset by a decline in our Bell Media segment.
The growth was driven by higher revenues, partly offset by increased operating costs.

Net earnings growth

Not applicable

(20.5%)

In 2023, net earnings decreased by 20.5%, compared to 2022, due to higher other expense
mainly due to losses on our equity investments in associates and joint ventures which
included a loss on BCE’s share of an obligation to repurchase at fair value the minority
interest in one of BCE’s joint ventures, higher interest expense, higher depreciation and
amortization and higher severance, acquisition and other costs, partly offset by higher
adjusted EBITDA and lower impairment of assets.

Capital intensity

19% to 20%

18.6%

2023 capital expenditures of $4,581 million declined by 10.8% year over year, which
corresponded to a capital intensity ratio of 18.6%, down 2.6 pts over last year, driven by
lower planned capital spending in 2023 subsequent to accelerated network investments
in 2022, as well as an unplanned additional $105 million decrease as a result of the CRTC’s
decision in November 2023 to mandate wholesale access to Bell’s FTTP network.

Net earnings per
share (EPS) growth

Not applicable

(23.5%)

Net earnings attributable to common shareholders in 2023 decreased by $640 million, or
$0.70 per common share, compared to 2022, due to higher other expense mainly due to
losses on our equity investments in associates and joint ventures which included a loss on
BCE’s share of an obligation to repurchase at fair value the minority interest in one of BCE’s
joint ventures, higher interest expense, higher depreciation and amortization and higher
severance, acquisition and other costs, partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower
impairment of assets.

Adjusted net
earnings per share
(adjusted EPS) growth

(7%) to (3%)

(4.2%)

Excluding the impact of severance, acquisition and other costs, net mark-to-market
gains (losses) on derivatives used to economically hedge equity settled share-based
compensation plans, net equity gains (losses) on investments in associates and joint
ventures, net gains (losses) on investments, early debt redemption costs and impairment
of assets, net of tax and non-controlling interest (NCI), adjusted net earnings in 2023
was $2,926 million, or $3.21 per common share, compared to $3,057 million, or
$3.35 per common share, in 2022.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

2023 Target

2023 Performance and results

Cash flows
from operating
activities growth

Not applicable

(5.0%)

In 2023, BCE’s cash flows from operating activities of $7,946 million decreased by
$419 million, compared to 2022, mainly due to lower cash from working capital, in part
from timing of supplier payments, and higher interest paid, partly offset by higher adjusted
EBITDA and lower contributions to post-employment benefit plans.

Free cash flow growth

2% to 10%

2.5%

Free cash flow of $3,144 million in 2023 increased by $77 million compared to 2022,
mainly due to lower capital expenditures, partly offset by lower cash flows from
operating activities, excluding cash from acquisition and other costs paid.

Annualized dividend
per common share

$3.87
per share

$3.87
Annualized dividend per BCE common share for 2023 increased by $0.19 cents, or 5.2%,
per share to $3.87 compared to $3.68 per share in 2022.

For a more detailed discussion of our 2023 financial performance including information on our capital expenditures and our capital
markets strategy, see the BCE 2023 Annual MD&A.

Shareholder returns and capital markets strategy
BCE seeks to deliver shareholder returns through dividend growth, while maintaining investment-grade credit ratings and overall
financial flexibility. This objective is underpinned by substantial free cash flow generation and a strong balance sheet, supporting
ongoing capital investment in advanced broadband networks and services that are essential to driving the long-term growth of
our business.

Strong strategic execution by the Bell team enabled us to achieve
our financial targets for the year while continuing to fund our
network expansion plans. Bell continued to keep Canadians
connected throughout 2023 by delivering market-leading
innovations, laying the foundation for our long-term success,
while providing the basis for our capital markets objective of
delivering dividend growth to our shareholders.

Our activities and outcomes
Shareholder return performance and
dividend growth and payout policy
BCE’s total shareholder return(1) was -6.2% in 2023 and +29.5% for the
five-year period from 2019 to 2023.
On February 8, 2024, we announced a 3.1%, or 12 cents, increase in
the annualized dividend payable on BCE’s common shares for 2024
to $3.99 per share from $3.87 per share in 2023, starting with the
quarterly dividend payable on April 15, 2024. Our objective seeks
to achieve dividend growth while maintaining our dividend payout
ratio(2) within the target policy range of 65% to 75% of free cash flow
and balancing our strategic business priorities. BCE’s dividend payout
policy, increases in the common share dividend and the declaration of
dividends are subject to the discretion of the BCE Board of Directors
(BCE Board) and, consequently, there can be no guarantee that BCE’s
dividend policy will be maintained or achieved, that the dividend on
common shares will be increased or that dividends will be declared.
As at December 31, 2023, our dividend payout ratio was 111%, compared
to 108% at December 31, 2022, which is higher than our target policy
range due to elevated capital expenditures compared to pre-2020
annual levels as we continued to make generational investments
in our networks to support the buildout of our fibre, 5G and 5G+
network infrastructure. Although a significant reduction in capital
expenditures is planned in 2024, due largely to government policy,
they are expected to remain higher than pre-2020 annual levels.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our financial resources

Financial measure

In addition, free cash flow in 2024 will be adversely impacted by
significantly higher severance payments related to workforce
restructuring initiatives, higher interest paid and lower cash from
working capital. As a result, BCE’s dividend payout ratio will remain
above our target policy range in 2024.
To learn more about our dividend growth and payout policy,
see BCE 2023 Annual MD&A section 1.4, Capital markets strategy.

Strong capital structure
BCE’s balance sheet is underpinned by a healthy available liquidity
position of $5.8 billion at the end of 2023, comprised of $547 million
in cash, $225 million in cash equivalents, $1,000 million in short-term
investments, $700 million available under our securitized receivables
program and $3.3 billion available under our $3.5 billion committed
revolving and expansion credit facilities, and an investment-grade
credit profile, providing the company with a solid financial foundation
and a high level of overall financial flexibility. BCE has an attractive long­
term debt maturity profile with all 2024 maturities already pre-funded.
We continue to monitor the capital markets for opportunities to lower
our cost of debt and optimize our cost of capital. We seek to proactively
manage financial risk in terms of currency exposure of our U.S. dollardenominated purchases, as well as equity risk exposure under BCE’s
long-term equity-based incentive plans and interest rate and foreign
currency exposure under our various debt instruments. We also seek
to maintain investment-grade credit ratings with stable outlooks.

(1) Shareholder return is defined as the change in BCE’s common share price for a specified period plus BCE common share dividends reinvested, divided by BCE’s common share price
at the beginning of the period.
(2) Dividend payout ratio is a non-GAAP ratio. It does not have any standardized meaning under IFRS. Therefore, it is unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other
issuers. We define dividend payout ratio as dividends paid on common shares divided by free cash flow. Refer to section 11, Non-GAAP financial measures, other financial measures
and key performance indicators (KPIs) of the BCE 2023 Annual MD&A for more information on this measure.

61

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Value creation our financial resources

Sustainable financing
In April 2021, Bell took a defining step in aligning its ESG objectives and
intentions for future financings by publishing the BCE Inc. Sustainable
Financing Framework, a first for a Canadian communications
company. The framework guides our issuance of green, social and
sustainability bonds or other sustainable financings by Bell. The
proceeds of these financings are intended for a portfolio of eligible
investments in any of the following 10 green and social categories:
energy efficiency, eco-efficient production technologies and
processes, pollution prevention and control, clean transportation,
renewable energy, green buildings, climate adaptation, affordable
basic infrastructure, access to essential services, emergency
response and pandemic relief.
Sustainalytics, a leading ESG research and analysis firm, provided
an independent second-party opinion that the BCE Inc. Sustainable
Financing Framework is credible and impactful and aligns with the
Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2018 and Green Loan Principles 2020.
On May 28, 2021, Bell became the first Canadian communications
company to issue a sustainability bond with the offering in Canada of
$500 million, 2.20% MTN Debentures, Series M-56, maturing May 29,
2028. In March 2022, we reported on the full allocation of the net
proceeds which were used to fund both environmental and social
eligible investments. Bell is focused on creating financial growth that
is aligned with our purpose while generating positive returns for our
investors. This in turn is expected to drive long-term value creation
for all stakeholders.
To learn more, see our Sustainable Financing Framework and
Sustainable Bond Allocation report at BCE.ca.
In November 2022, Bell amended its existing $3.5 billion committed
credit facilities to convert them to a sustainability-linked loan (SLL).
The amendment introduces an annual pricing adjustment that
reduces or increases the borrowing cost based on Bell’s performance
on two key annual sustainability performance targets related to the
following Bell science-based GHG targets approved by the SBTi: i)
Reducing absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 58% by 2030 from
a 2020 base year; and ii) Reaching 64% of our suppliers by spend,
covering purchased goods and services, having science-based
targets by 2026.
In May 2023, Bell entered into its first Sustainability-Linked Derivatives
(SLDs). The SLDs introduce a pricing adjustment that increases the
derivatives’ cost based on Bell’s performance toward its sciencebased target to reduce its operational GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2)
of 58% by 2030 from a 2020 base year. Bell selected this sustainability
performance target to support its objective to meet its sciencebased target for GHG emissions reduction by tying performance
with financial costs. The sustainability performance target will be
measured as of 2030 and a limited assurance review of Bell’s target
will be performed by an independent third party.

62

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

In September 2023, Bell amended its existing Cdn $2.3 billion securitiz­
ation program to add sustainability-linked pricing. The amendments
introduce an annual pricing adjustment that reduces or increases
the borrowing cost based on Bell’s performance of two key annual
sustainability performance targets related to the following Bell
science-based targets for GHG emissions reduction and supplier
engagement: i) Reducing absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
58% by 2030 from a 2020 base year; and ii) Reaching 64% of our
suppliers by spend, covering purchased goods and services, having
science-based targets by 2026.
These 2022 and 2023 initiatives underscore Bell’s ongoing focus on
ESG objectives by tying our performance on these key targets to our
cost of financing. They also build credibility on Bell’s efforts to meet
its ESG performance targets.

Capital expenditures
We expanded our fibre network to an additional 633,000 locations
this past year. Our award-winning 5G network covered 86% of
Canadians by the end of 2023, with 5G+ available to 51% of the national
population. We now offer multi-gig symmetrical Internet speeds
of three gigabits-per-second in 6.5 million locations, a competitive
advantage that our cable competitors cannot match across their
entire footprints. Our performance and quality edge over cable is
reflected in our Internet subscriber metrics. We also secured the
most 5G+ spectrum nationwide in the federal government’s 3500 and
3800 MHz spectrum auctions, recently securing the acquisition of
939 licenses for 3800 MHz spectrum, and acquired at a total cost
that was the lowest among national wireless carriers.
Bell’s leadership in the deployment of new and innovative networks
and services is a direct result of our investment in research and
development (R&D), which enables us to continue providing our
customers with products and services that are among the most
advanced in the world. At the same time, R&D allows us to adopt new
technologies that better support our own operations, champion the
customer experience, and drive growth with innovative services. In
2023, Bell’s R&D spending was $684 million in capital expenditures
and $90 million in operating expenses. Bell continues to collaborate
with industry partners to drive innovation and create long-term
value for Canadians. This includes support for university research
to drive innovation in 5G, AI and cybersecurity, helping to deliver a
stream of innovative technology to Canadian homes and businesses.
To learn more about our capital expenditures, refer to our
BCE 2023 Annual MD&A.

BCE welcomes the increased demand from our stakeholders for transparency regarding our climate-related risks
and opportunities. We also believe it is important to detail how related risks and opportunities can affect our business.
As a result, we report on climate-related information in accordance with the recommendations from the Task Force
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures in our Climate action report. A summary of our climate-related risks and
opportunities is described below.
To learn more about our approach to climate-related risks and opportunities, please see the following links:
— Climate action report, in alignment with the TCFD recommendations
— Section 1.5 of the MD&A and section 6.2 of BCE’s Management Proxy Circular – Climate change governance

Governance

GRI 2-9, 2-13

The Board of Directors has established clear lines of authority and oversight over our climate-related risks and opportunities, with primary
accountability at the Board committee level. The management and oversight of climate-related matters have been integrated into the roles and
responsibilities of executives, management and other team members. Remuneration is linked to the successful delivery of our corporate-wide
climate change strategy through the evaluation of progress against climate-related objectives and targets.

Strategy
At BCE, we believe companies across all sectors must take action and seek to reduce and neutralize their carbon footprint. This collective
effort is needed to hold global warming to well below 2°C, and preferably limit it to 1.5°C above pre-industrial (1850–1900) levels.
Beyond reducing GHG emissions, Bell continues to enhance and prepare its adaptation measures to face the impacts of climate change by
increasing corporate climate resiliency. That’s why we assess our climate-related risks and opportunities and their impacts on our businesses,
strategy, financial planning and overall resilience.

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Climate-related risks and opportunities disclosures summary

Climate-related risks and opportunities disclosures summary

In alignment with the TCFD recommendations, we categorize climate-related risks into transition and physical risks, and identify climaterelated transition opportunities. Transition risks are associated with the transition to a lower-carbon economy. This may include extensive
regulatory, technology, and market changes needed to address mitigation and adaptation requirements related to climate change. Physical
risks are associated with the physical impacts from a changing climate and can either be event-driven (acute) or longer-term shifts (chronic)
in climate patterns. For the purpose of disclosures recommended by the TCFD, we have focused on seven main risks, and five opportunities.

Climate-related risks and opportunities

GRI 201-2

transition risks & opportunities

regulation –
Carbon pricing

Risks

Opportunities

We are impacted by current regulations, as the
power providers we rely on are subject to carbon
pricing and are expected to transfer carbon costs
to their customers.

Customers targeted by carbon pricing schemes are
expected to seek products and services that will
enable them to cut GHG emissions.

We expect our operating costs to increase as
energy prices continue to rise across Canada.

Technology

Our customers are upgrading their devices more
frequently, leading to an increase in e-waste. To
address this, we are setting e-waste recovery
targets and increasing opportunities to return
mobile phones.
We expect our operating costs to increase as a
result of managing the program to recover, treat,
and dispose of e-waste.

The Internet of Things is one of our major carbon
reduction enablers, facilitating solutions such as smart
cities, smart buildings, smart roads, smart operations,
and smart field work.
The increased frequency and severity of extreme
weather conditions resulting from climate change
could present an increased demand for our products
and services, which can improve their businesses’
resiliency. Teleworking and teleconferencing solutions
allow our clients to work from anywhere and minimize
their need for business travel.

63

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Climate-related risks and opportunities disclosures summary

Risks

Opportunities

Market

The transition to a low-carbon economy is likely
to shift supply and demand for energy, whereby
energy supply could decrease and energy prices
would subsequently increase. We expect our
operating costs to increase as a result of this shift.

Protecting our assets to prevent service disruptions is
key to a resilient network. Proactively communicating
our efforts can increase our ability to acquire new
customers and retain the ones we have.

Reputation
(customer perception)

Service disruptions due to the impacts of climate
change could have an adverse effect on our ability
to provide key communication services, potentially
jeopardizing customer satisfaction and damaging
our overall reputation.

Our efforts to reduce our environmental footprint
offer an opportunity for Bell to distinguish itself from
competitors, potentially increasing demand for
our products and services. This can also positively
influence our brand value and reputation.

Failing to demonstrate proactive climate change
mitigation efforts may result in decreased demand
for our products and services.
Reputation
(ESG ratings)

Investors increasingly use ESG ratings to inform their
investment decisions. Our ESG performance is largely
influenced by our climate-related disclosures and our
ability to meet our climate-related targets. Failure to
consistently disclose our engagement and progress
in fighting climate change or other ESG-related
performance metrics, as well as experiencing a
decline in our ESG ratings over time, all pose a risk of
negative investor perception. This could lead to an
increased cost of capital.

Transparent disclosure and strong climate-related
performance could enhance our ESG ratings, which
could decrease our cost of capital.

physical risks
Acute impacts
(extreme weather
events)

Global scientific evidence suggests that climate change will increase both the frequency and severity of
extreme weather events. This will include such events as flooding, ice storms and wildfires, among others.
These could have a destructive impact on our communications network infrastructure and in turn affect our
ability to deliver services that are critical to our customers and society.
A service disruption due to extreme weather events could lead to financial impacts including an increase
in operating costs from maintenance and repairs, labour, heating and cooling, and equipment damage.
Our insurance premiums could increase, or we could face reduced insurability in high-risk areas.
Furthermore, this could jeopardize customer satisfaction and may result in a decrease in revenues

Chronic impacts
(rising mean
temperatures)

Anthropogenic global warming has already reached about 1.1°C above pre-industrial levels, and is
expected to reach 1.5°C over the next 20 years, according to the IPCC AR6. In Canada, the average annual
temperatures have increased by 1.9°C (over the period of 1948–2021) and are expected to keep rising(1).
If average temperatures in Bell’s operating regions fluctuate year-over-year, wether consistently cooler
or warmer, HVAC capacities at facilities will have to increase accordingly. This will increase our energy
consumption and associated operational costs for investments in our infrastructure.

(1) From Government of Canada’s website: Temperature change in Canada.

64

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

To enhance our resiliency to climate-related risks and inform our strategic planning, we completed a climate scenario analysis exercise that
estimated the potential financial impacts of relevant climate-related risks and opportunities. We initiated our first climate scenario analysis
exercise in 2020 and updated the analysis in 2021 to reflect updated IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) conclusions from its
Sixth Assessment Report (AR6) and to update the transition risks and opportunities. Our climate-related scenario analysis reflects the latest
IPCC conclusions that estimates the chances of crossing the global warming level of 1.5°C in the next decade.
The qualitative and quantitative climate scenario analysis studied a number of future emissions pathway scenarios. The analysis took into
consideration low and high temperature warming scenarios for both physical and transition risks over a short (five-year), medium (10-year)
and long-term (20-year) time horizon. We selected and used six distinct scenarios in our analysis.
Our scenario analysis included the following climate-related risks, which we estimated could have potential financial impacts on our business:
— Physical risks: Flooding, wildfires, ice storms and temperature changes
— Transition risks: Regulation and reputation.
The results of the scenario analysis were provided to BCE’s Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Compliance (HSSEC) Oversight Committee,
Corporate Governance Committee (CGC) and Risk Pension Fund Committee (RPFC). This enables these committees to review estimated potential
financial impacts from climate change and equips them with the information needed to incorporate climate-related risks and opportunities
into future decision-making and strategic planning.

Risk management
BCE’s processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into our multidisciplinary, company-wide risk
identification, assessment and management processes.

Identification and assessment of climate-related risks

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Climate-related risks and opportunities disclosures summary

Climate scenario analysis

The Corporate Responsibility and Environment (CR&E) team monitors industry trends and publications, consults with subject matter experts
and works collaboratively with BCE’s Risk Advisory Services (RAS) team. Through this, the team seeks to ensure that risks are appropriately
documented and profiled within the organization. Identified risks are assessed based on a number of criteria. This includes the potential
nature, scale and scope of impact if the risk were to occur. The likelihood of occurrence is also assessed, predicated on a combination of the
level of threat posed to the organization by the risk, and the organization’s vulnerability to a related risk event.

Internal reporting of climate-related risks
Risk exposures for climate-related risks are communicated by the CR&E team internally as part of standard management practices, with
regular oversight review at HSSEC Committee meetings, and quarterly by the RPFC. Our climate risk reporting framework is based on the
TCFD risk classification framework. A risk analysis report covering Bell’s most prominent risks is generated and provided annually to the
Board of Directors.

Metrics and targets
As one of Canada’s largest employers, we are driven to play a role in mitigating the growing impacts of climate change, which is why we’ve
been on this journey for the past 20 years and have set milestones within the next few years to track our progress.
To learn more about our targets and performance, refer the section on Our environment in this Strategic overview.
To learn more about our opportunity metrics and targets, along with our GHG abatement ratio tracking the transition to a lower carbon
economy enabled by the use of Bell’s technological solutions, refer to the section on Our products and services in this Strategic overview.

65

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Issues impacting value

Issues impacting value
The following section provides a high-level overview of some of our principal business risks that could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, liquidity, financial results or reputation. We also detail below our approach to dealing with these risks. Although
we believe the measures taken to manage risks are reasonable, there are inherent limitations to such measures. There can be no expectation
or assurance that they will effectively address or mitigate such risks. Our business is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and the risks
described below are not the only ones that could affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently
deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, financial results or reputation.
The actual effect of any event could be materially different from what we currently anticipate. Readers should refer to section 9, Business
risks of the BCE 2023 Annual MD&A for a more detailed discussion of these risks. Readers should also refer to the section entitled “Caution
regarding forward-looking statements” on page 6 of this Strategic overview.
Risk factors

Description

Management activities

Capitals

Regulatory
environment
and compliance

Regulatory initiatives,
proceedings and decisions,
government consultations and
government positions affect us
and influence our business

We actively participate in the public consultations
by governments and regulatory bodies on issues of
importance to our businesses. We seek to demonstrate
the value of a policy and regulatory climate that supports
investments in Canada and recognizes the long-term
benefits to Canadians of facilities-based competition

Our networks

Inability to build and
operationalize enhanced
compliance frameworks and
comply with legal and regulatory
obligations; unfavourable
resolution of legal proceedings

Competitive
environment

Technology/
infrastructure
transformation

Intensity of competitive
activity and an evolving
competitive dynamic, including
from regulatory decisions,
technological substitution,
acquisitions by competitors
and the expansion of alternative
service providers with
variable scale, coverage and
technologies, all contributing
to disruptions in each of our
business segments
Failure to evolve and transform
our networks, systems
and operations using nextgeneration technologies, while
lowering our cost structure
The inability to increase
network resiliency to withstand
climate-related disruptions,
extreme weather and
natural disasters

66

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

We inform stakeholders of the benefits we provide to
local communities including employment, connectivity to
world-class networks and services, and access to news,
information and entertainment

Our customers
and relationships
Our products
and services
Our environment
Our people

We aim to enhance our compliance frameworks, including
through internal steering committees and employee
awareness and training on emerging and evolving legal
and regulatory obligations

Our financial
resources

We invest in and leverage our networks and technology,
our suite of products and services and our relationships
to build and maintain a strong customer value proposition
while seeking to expand our market presence

Our networks

We have a disciplined strategic planning process which
seeks to address changing market dynamics in relation
to traditional and new markets

Our financial
resources

Our products
and services

We aim to establish differentiation against traditional and
new competitors, leveraging acquisitions and strategic
partnerships to serve our customers

We are making significant investments in next-generation
networks and technologies which aim to support our
transformation from a traditional telecommunication
companies to a technology services and digital media
company. These investments seek to broaden our reach,
streamline and simplify systems and processes, and bring
continuous innovation and improvements to the products
and services we offer. We also leverage acquisitions and
strategic partnerships with a holistic focus on seeking to
enhance customer value and improve our underlying cost
structure

Our networks
Our customers
and relationships
Our products
and services
Our financial
resources

Description

Management activities

Capitals

Customer experience

Inability to drive a positive
customer experience in all
aspects of our engagement
with customers

Championing the customer experience is a Bell strategic
imperative and is central to our choice of strategic
investments and operating principles and practices

Our networks

Security management
and data governance

Inability to protect our
physical and non-physical
assets from events such as
information security attacks and
unauthorized access or entry
Failure to implement effective
security and data governance
frameworks

People

Operational
performance

We constantly seek to innovate in the ways we deliver
service and support. This includes improvements to the
range and capabilities of our online self-serve and support
options, and the deployment of innovative tools that use
artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies
We have a well-developed information security strategy
which guides our investments in the implementation of
prevention, detection and response programs aimed at
protecting our assets against cyber threats
Our security programs also seek to protect our extensive
portfolio of physical assets in relation to unauthorized
access, structural damage and business continuity
Our data governance program covers privacy,
information security, data access management
and records management, and we have
implemented mandatory information security and
data governance training for all employees

Our customers
and relationships
Our products
and services

Our networks
Our customers
and relationships
Our products
and services
Our people
Our financial
resources

Workforce disruptions and
failure to maintain positive
labour relations

We strive to be an employer of choice. Our Employee
Our people
Value Proposition is designed to empower our team
members to make an impact, immerse themselves in
opportunities and belong. We offer a variety of employee
programs that focus on engagement, health and well-being,
DEIB objectives and performance. We invest in effective
talent management strategies and development programs
for high-potential leaders, as well as mentoring, coaching
and sponsorship. In addition, our recruitment strategies
actively focus on diversifying our talent community
by partnering with various organizations to promote
diversity and holding virtual recruitment events to engage
potential candidates

Failure to maintain operational
networks and to implement or
maintain effective processes
and IT systems

We focus on delivering high-quality reliable services
across our networks and service portfolios through
performance monitoring, proactive maintenance and
strategic redundancy

Our networks

Events affecting the functionality
of, and our ability to protect, test,
maintain, replace and upgrade
our networks, IT systems,
equipment and other facilities

We seek to improve network and technology performance
to maximize efficiencies, considering availability, cost and
the environment

Our financial
resources

Failure to attract, develop and
retain a diverse and talented
team capable of furthering
our strategic imperatives and
high-tech transformation

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Issues impacting value

Risk factors

Our products
and services

We perform assessments of critical assets and carry out
continuous business impact assessments of key functions
and backup planning to support smooth operations

67

StratEgIC oVErVIEW Issues impacting value

Risk factors

Description

Management activities

Capitals

Financial management

Inability to access adequate
sources of capital and generate
sufficient cash flows from
operating activities to meet our
cash requirements, fund capital
expenditures and provide for
planned growth

We have implemented financial management systems and
practices to monitor our liquidity levels and our access
to capital. We seek to protect against material economic
exposures and financial risks

Our networks

We further implement targeted initiatives as we seek to
optimize our cost structure

Our financial
resources

We have a supplier risk management program that aims
to profile and manage ongoing risk exposure in key
supplier arrangements. We work with suppliers to develop
appropriate remedial strategies when issues are uncovered

Our networks

We seek to address supply chain constraints by actively
managing inventory levels and implementing the
appropriate sourcing responses

Our products
and services

Failure to lower our
cost structure
Failure to adequately manage
our exposure to financial
risks and risks related to tax
amounts, contributions to
post-employment benefit plans,
and fraudulent activities
Supply chain

Our dependence on thirdparty suppliers, outsourcers
and consultants to provide
an uninterrupted supply of
products and services we need
Failure of our supplier selection,
governance and oversight
processes and the extent
to which our products and
services may fail to comply with
applicable standards

Reputation and
environmental, social
and governance
practices

Reputational risks and the
inability to meaningfully
integrate ESG considerations
into our business strategies and
operations, or to achieve our
ESG performance targets
Failure to take appropriate
action to adapt to current
and emerging environmental
impacts, including
climate change
Pandemics, epidemics and
other health risks
Failure to develop and implement
strong corporate governance
practices and adequately
manage social issues

68

Our products
and services

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Our customers
and relationships

Our environment
Our financial
resources

We seek to integrate ESG into our business strategies and
brand value proposition
We have set targets against certain ESG topics that we
monitor. Some of those targets are linked to compensation.
We have implemented initiatives that aim to improve ESG
performance, and enhanced our ESG public disclosures
We have established clear lines of authority over, and
oversight of, our corporate responsibility programs and our
approach to ESG practices with primary accountability at
the Board level
We implement various preventative measures to address
health and environmental risks
We have implemented corporate governance practices,
including through our Code of Business Conduct, as well
as policies and systems seeking to monitor and address
legal exposure

Our networks
Our customers
and relationships
Our products
and services
Our environment
Our people

Management’s
discussion and analysis
Table of contents
Overview

72

1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6

72
75
78
80
83
86

Introduction
About BCE
Key corporate developments
Capital markets strategy
Corporate governance and risk management
Capitals and our corporate responsibility

2 Strategic imperatives
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6

Build the best networks
Drive growth with innovative services
Deliver the most compelling content
Champion customer experience
Operate with agility and cost efficiency
Engage and invest in our people and create
a sustainable future

3 Performance targets, outlook, assumptions
and risks
3.1
3.2
3.3

BCE 2023 performance vs. guidance targets
Business outlook and assumptions
Principal business risks

4 Consolidated financial analysis
4.1 Introduction
4.2 Customer connections
4.3 Operating revenues
4.4 Operating costs
4.5 Net earnings
4.6 Adjusted EBITDA
4.7 Severance, acquisition and other costs
4.8 Depreciation and amortization
4.9 Finance costs
4.10 Impairment of assets
4.11 Other expense
4.12 Income taxes
4.13 Net earnings attributable to common shareholders
and EPS
4.14 Capital expenditures
4.15 Cash flows

95
95
95
96
97
97
98
99
99
100
101
105
105
106
107
108
108
109
109
110
110
111
111
112
112
113
113

5 Business segment analysis
5.1
5.2

Bell CTS
Bell Media

6 Financial and capital management
6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.6
6.7
6.8

Net debt
Outstanding share data
Cash flows
Post-employment benefit plans
Financial risk management
Credit ratings
Liquidity
Litigation

7 Selected annual and quarterly information
7.1
7.2

Annual financial information
Quarterly financial information

8 Regulatory environment
8.1
8.2
8.3
8.4
8.5
8.6

Introduction
Telecommunications Act
Broadcasting Act
Radiocommunication Act
Bell Canada Act
Other

114
114
123
128
128
129
129
131
132
135
135
137
138
138
140
143
143
143
145
146
147
147

9 Business risks

148

10 Accounting policies

159

11 Non-GAAP financial measures, other financial
measures and key performance indicators (KPIs)

163

11.1 Non-GAAP financial measures
11.2 Non-GAAP ratios
11.3 Total of segments measures
11.4 Capital management measures
11.5 Supplementary financial measures
11.6 KPIs

12 Effectiveness of internal controls

MD&A

1

163
166
166
167
168
168
169

69

In this management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A), we, us, our, BCE
and the company mean, as the context may require, either BCE Inc. or,
collectively, BCE Inc., Bell Canada, their subsidiaries, joint arrangements
and associates. Bell means, as the context may require, either Bell
Canada or, collectively, Bell Canada, its subsidiaries, joint arrangements
and associates.

MD&A

All amounts in this MD&A are in millions of Canadian dollars, except
where noted. Please refer to section 11, Non-GAAP financial measures,
other financial measures and key performance indicators (KPIs) for a
list of defined non-GAAP financial measures, other financial measures
and KPIs.
Please refer to BCE’s audited consolidated financial statements for the
year ended December 31, 2023 when reading this MD&A.

Caution regarding forward-looking statements

This MD&A and, in particular, but without limitation, section 1.3, Key
corporate developments, section 1.4, Capital markets strategy, section 1.6,
Capitals and our corporate responsibility, section 2, Strategic imperatives,
section 3.2, Business outlook and assumptions, section 5, Business
segment analysis and section 6.7, Liquidity, contain forward-looking
statements. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation,
statements relating to our projected financial performance for 2024,
BCE’s dividend growth objective, 2024 annualized common share
dividend and dividend payout ratio level, and dividend payout policy
target, BCE’s anticipated capital expenditures and network deployment
plans, BCE’s financial policy target, the cost savings and other benefits
expected to result from workforce reductions as well as estimated
related severance payments, the sources of liquidity we expect to use
to meet our 2024 cash requirements, our expected post-employment
benefit plans funding, the expected timing and completion of the
proposed acquisition of the Canadian out-of-home media business of
OUTFRONT Media Inc. and the benefits expected to result therefrom,
our environmental, social and governance (ESG) objectives, which
include, without limitation, our objectives concerning diversity, equity,
inclusion and belonging (DEIB), our targeted reductions in the level of our
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions including, without limitation, our carbon
neutrality (scope 1 and 2 only) target and our science-based targets,
our objectives concerning reductions in waste to landfill, community
investment, privacy and information security, corporate governance and
ethical business conduct, BCE’s business outlook, objectives, plans and
strategic priorities, and other statements that do not refer to historical
facts. A statement we make is forward-looking when it uses what we
know and expect today to make a statement about the future. Forwardlooking statements are typically identified by the words assumption,
goal, guidance, objective, outlook, project, strategy, target, commitment
and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as aim,
anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, may, plan, seek, should, strive
and will. All such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the
safe harbour provisions of applicable Canadian securities laws and of
the United States (U.S.) Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

70

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

In preparing this MD&A, we have taken into account information available
to us up to March 7, 2024, the date of this MD&A, unless otherwise stated.
You will find additional information relating to BCE, including BCE’s audited
consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023,
BCE’s annual information form for the year ended December 31, 2023,
dated March 7, 2024 (BCE 2023 AIF) and recent financial reports, on BCE’s
website at BCE.ca, on SEDAR+ at sedarplus.ca and on EDGAR at sec.gov.
Documents and other information contained in BCE’s website or in any
other site referred to in BCE’s website or in this MD&A are not part of
this MD&A and are not incorporated by reference herein.
This MD&A comments on our business operations, performance, financial
position and other matters for the two years ended December 31, 2023
and 2022.

Unless otherwise indicated by us, forward-looking statements in this
MD&A describe our expectations as at March 7, 2024 and, accordingly,
are subject to change after that date. Except as may be required by
applicable securities laws, we do not undertake any obligation to update
or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements, by their very nature, are subject to inherent
risks and uncertainties and are based on several assumptions, both
general and specific, which give rise to the possibility that actual results
or events could differ materially from our expectations expressed in,
or implied by, such forward-looking statements and that our business
outlook, objectives, plans and strategic priorities may not be achieved.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance or events,
and we caution you against relying on any of these forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements are presented in this MD&A
for the purpose of assisting investors and others in understanding
our objectives, strategic priorities and business outlook as well as our
anticipated operating environment. Readers are cautioned, however,
that such information may not be appropriate for other purposes.
We have made certain economic, market, operational and other
assumptions in preparing the forward-looking statements contained in
this MD&A, and, in particular, but without limitation, the forward-looking
statements contained in the previously mentioned sections of this
MD&A. These assumptions include, without limitation, the assumptions
described in the various sub-sections of this MD&A entitled Assumptions,
which sub-sections are incorporated by reference in this cautionary
statement. Subject to various factors, we believe that our assumptions
were reasonable at March 7, 2024. If our assumptions turn out to be
inaccurate, actual results or events could be materially different from
what we expect.
Important risk factors that could cause actual results or events to differ
materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the previouslymentioned forward-looking statements and other forward-looking
statements contained in this MD&A, include, but are not limited to: the
negative effect of adverse economic conditions, including a potential
recession, elevated inflation, high interest rates and financial and capital
market volatility, and the resulting negative impact on business and

reduce costs and adequately assess investment priorities, as well as
unexpected increases in costs; the inability to manage various credit,
liquidity and market risks; the failure to evolve practices to effectively
monitor and control fraudulent activities; new or higher taxes due to
new tax laws or changes thereto or in the interpretation thereof, and the
inability to predict the outcome of government audits; the impact on our
financial statements and estimates from a number of factors; pension
obligation volatility and increased contributions to post-employment
benefit plans; our dependence on third-party suppliers, outsourcers
and consultants to provide an uninterrupted supply of the products
and services we need; the failure of our vendor selection, governance
and oversight processes, including our management of supplier risk in
the areas of security, data governance and responsible procurement;
the quality of our products and services and the extent to which they
may be subject to defects or fail to comply with applicable government
regulations and standards; reputational risks and the inability to
meaningfully integrate ESG considerations into our business strategy
and operations; the failure to take appropriate actions to adapt to
current and emerging environmental impacts, including climate change;
pandemics, epidemics and other health risks, including health concerns
about radio frequency emissions from wireless communications devices
and equipment; the inability to adequately manage social issues; the
failure to develop and implement sufficient corporate governance
practices; the adverse impact of various internal and external factors
on our ability to achieve our ESG targets including, without limitation,
those related to GHG emissions reduction and DEIB.

MD&A

customer spending and the demand for our products and services;
the negative effect of adverse conditions associated with geopolitical
events; regulatory initiatives, proceedings and decisions, government
consultations and government positions that negatively affect us
and influence our business including, without limitation, concerning
mandatory access to networks, spectrum auctions, the imposition
of consumer-related codes of conduct, approval of acquisitions,
broadcast and spectrum licensing, foreign ownership requirements,
privacy and cybersecurity obligations and control of copyright piracy;
the inability to implement enhanced compliance frameworks and to
comply with legal and regulatory obligations; unfavourable resolution
of legal proceedings; the intensity of competitive activity and the failure
to effectively respond to evolving competitive dynamics; the level of
technological substitution and the presence of alternative service
providers contributing to disruptions and disintermediation in each
of our business segments; changing customer behaviour and the
expansion of cloud-based, over-the-top (OTT) and other alternative
solutions; advertising market pressures from economic conditions,
fragmentation and non-traditional/global digital services; rising content
costs and challenges in our ability to acquire or develop key content;
high Canadian Internet and smartphone penetration; the failure to
evolve and transform our networks, systems and operations using nextgeneration technologies while lowering our cost structure, including the
failure to transition from a traditional telecommunications company
to a tech services and digital media company and meet customer
expectations of product and service experience; the inability to drive a
positive customer experience; the inability to protect our physical and
non-physical assets from events such as information security attacks,
unauthorized access or entry, fire and natural disasters; the failure to
implement an effective data governance framework; the failure to attract,
develop and retain a diverse and talented team capable of furthering
our strategic imperatives and high-tech transformation; the potential
deterioration in employee morale and engagement resulting from staff
reductions, cost reductions or reorganizations and the de-prioritization
of transformation initiatives due to staff reductions, cost reductions or
reorganizations; the failure to adequately manage health and safety
concerns; labour disruptions and shortages; the risk that we may need
to incur significant capital expenditures to provide additional capacity
and reduce network congestion; service interruptions or outages due to
network failures or slowdowns; events affecting the functionality of, and
our ability to protect, test, maintain, replace and upgrade, our networks,
information technology (IT) systems, equipment and other facilities;
the failure by other telecommunications carriers on which we rely to
provide services to complete planned and sufficient testing, maintenance,
replacement or upgrade of their networks, equipment and other facilities,
which could disrupt our operations including through network or other
infrastructure failures; the complexity of our operations and IT systems
and the failure to implement or maintain highly effective processes and
IT systems; in-orbit and other operational risks to which the satellites
used to provide our satellite television (TV) services are subject; the
inability to access adequate sources of capital and generate sufficient
cash flows from operating activities to meet our cash requirements,
fund capital expenditures and provide for planned growth; uncertainty
as to whether dividends will be declared or the dividend on common
shares will be increased by BCE’s board of directors; the failure to

These and other risk factors that could cause actual results or events
to differ materially from our expectations expressed in, or implied by,
our forward-looking statements are discussed in this MD&A and, in
particular, in section 9, Business risks of this MD&A.
Forward-looking statements contained in this MD&A for periods
beyond 2024 involve longer-term assumptions and estimates than
forward-looking statements for 2024 and are consequently subject
to greater uncertainty. Forward-looking statements for periods
beyond 2024 further assume, unless otherwise indicated, that the
risks described above and in section 9, Business risks of this MD&A will
remain substantially unchanged during such periods.
We caution readers that the risk factors described above and in the
previously-mentioned section and in other sections of this MD&A are
not the only ones that could affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties
not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial
may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, liquidity, financial results or reputation. We regularly consider
potential acquisitions, dispositions, mergers, business combinations,
investments, monetizations, joint ventures and other transactions,
some of which may be significant. Except as otherwise indicated by
us, forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact
of any such transactions or of special items that may be announced
or that may occur after March 7, 2024. The financial impact of these
transactions and special items can be complex and depends on facts
particular to each of them. We therefore cannot describe the expected
impact in a meaningful way, or in the same way we present known
risks affecting our business.

71

1

MD&A Overview

1 Overview
In 2022, we began modifying our internal and external reporting
processes to align with organizational changes that were made
to reflect an increasing strategic focus on multiproduct sales, the
continually increasing technological convergence of our wireless and
wireline telecommunications infrastructure and operations driven by
the deployment of our Fifth Generation (5G) and fibre networks, and
our digital transformation. These factors have made it increasingly
difficult to distinguish between our wireless and wireline operations
and resulted in changes in Q1 2023 to the financial information that is
regularly provided to our chief operating decision maker to measure
performance and allocate resources.

1.1

Effective with our Q1 2023 results, our previous Bell Wireless and Bell
Wireline operating segments were combined to form a single reporting
segment called Bell Communication and Technology Services (Bell CTS).
Bell Media remains a distinct reportable segment and is unaffected. As
a result of our reporting changes, prior periods have been restated for
comparative purposes.

Introduction

At a glance
BCE is Canada’s largest communications company (1), providing
residential, business and wholesale customers with a wide range of
solutions for all their communications needs. BCE’s shares are publicly
traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock
Exchange (TSX, NYSE: BCE).

Bell Media provides conventional TV, specialty TV, pay TV, streaming
services, digital media services, radio broadcasting services and
out-of-home (OOH) and advanced advertising services to customers
nationally across Canada. Revenues are derived primarily from
advertising and subscriber fees.

Our results are reported in two segments: Bell CTS and Bell Media.

We also hold investments in a number of other assets, including:

Bell CTS provides a wide range of communication products and services
to consumers, businesses and government customers across Canada.
Wireless products and services include mobile data and voice plans and
devices and are available nationally. Wireline products and services
comprise data (including Internet access, Internet protocol television
(IPTV), cloud-based services and business solutions), voice, and other
communication services and products, which are available to our
residential, small and medium-sized business and large enterprise
customers primarily in Ontario, Québec, the Atlantic provinces and
Manitoba, while satellite TV service and connectivity to business
customers are available nationally across Canada. In addition, this
segment includes our wholesale business, which buys and sells local
telephone, long distance, data and other services from or to resellers
and other carriers, as well as the results of operations of our national
consumer electronics retailer, The Source (Bell) Electronics Inc. (The
Source). Subsequent to year end, Bell Canada announced a strategic
partnership with Best Buy Canada to operate 165 The Source consumer
electronics retail stores in Canada, which will be rebranded as Best
Buy Express and offer the latest in consumer electronics from Best Buy
along with exclusive telecommunications services from Bell. In addition,
Bell will wind down The Source head office and back office operations,
as well as close 107 The Source stores.

• a 37.5% indirect equity interest in Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd.
(MLSE)

• a 50% indirect equity interest in Glentel Inc. (Glentel)
• a 20.2% indirect equity interest in entities that operate the Montréal
Canadiens Hockey Club, evenko and the Bell Centre in Montréal,
Québec, as well as Place Bell in Laval, Québec

BCE is Canada’s largest
communications company
BCE’s business segments
At December 31, 2023

BCE

Bell
CTS

(1) Based on total revenue and total combined customer connections.

72

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Bell
Media

Our purpose
BCE’s purpose is to advance how Canadians connect with each other and the world. Our strategy builds on our longstanding strengths in networks,
service innovation and content creation, and positions the company for continued growth and innovation leadership. Our primary business
objectives are to grow our subscriber base profitably and to maximize revenues, operating profit, free cash flow and return on invested capital
by further enhancing our position as the foremost provider in Canada of comprehensive communications services to residential, business and
wholesale customers, and as Canada’s leading content creation company. We seek to take advantage of opportunities to leverage our networks,
infrastructure, sales channels, and brand and marketing resources across our various lines of business to create value for our customers and
other stakeholders.

Build the
best networks

Drive growth with
innovative services

Deliver the most
compelling content

Champion
customer experience

Operate with agility
and cost efficiency

Engage and invest in
our people and create
a sustainable future

1

Bell’s
six strategic
imperatives

MD&A Overview

Our strategy is centred on our disciplined focus and execution of six strategic imperatives that position us to deliver continued success in a
fast-changing communications marketplace. The six strategic imperatives that underlie BCE’s business plan are:

We have begun our journey to modernize from a traditional
telecommunications company (telco) to a technology services and
digital media company (collectively referred to as techco). Innovation
is driving customer expectations for enhanced user experiences,
improved customer service, and faster market responses, all of which
are improved by our transformation to a techco. Our evolution to a
techco takes a customer-first approach and specifically sets out to
deliver incremental value to our customers:

• Ability for customers to enjoy our products, services, and content on
any device in any location

• Enable customers to be served on their timeline through simple sales

and support interactions across the channel of their choosing (e.g.,
online, call centre, store)

• Access to new and better products, services and solutions on an

accelerated basis tailored to meet customers’ evolving needs and
expectations

To support and accelerate this evolution, we launched a multi-year
operational transformation project to modernize our operations, increase
productivity, build tech talent and materially right-size our cost base.

Our alignment to the International Integrated Reporting Framework
Following the principles of the International Integrated Reporting Framework (<IR> Framework), now part of the International Financial Reporting
Standards Foundation, Bell released, concurrently with this MD&A, an Integrated Annual Report which contains a strategic overview outlining
our sustainable value creation process. This strategic overview discloses how we seek to generate sustainable value for our stakeholders as
the result of our business operations, guided by our strategic imperatives and use of capitals. Our capitals are outlined below and serve
as inputs that are transformed through our business strategy and strategic imperatives resulting in outcomes that seek to create value for our
stakeholders over time.

Our
networks

Our customers
and relationships

Our products
and services

Our
environment

Our
people

Our financial
resources

Reliable, accessible
and affordable
world-class
broadband fibre and
wireless networks.

Strong relationships
with customers,
communities
and suppliers.

Innovative and
compelling products,
services and media
content addressing
societal demands.

Responsible
environmental
management
throughout
our operations.

Skilled, engaged
and diverse
team members.

Capital from our
investors, returns
on our investments
and free cash flow
generated from
our operations.

To increase the connectivity of information, we have incorporated the icons representing our six capitals described above throughout this MD&A
to highlight the respective linkage between our capitals and the topics discussed.

73

BCE 2023 consolidated results
Operating revenues

Net earnings

$24,673

$2,327

$2,076
million
(23.6%) vs. 2022

$10,417

million
(20.5%) vs. 2022

Adjusted net earnings (1)

$2,926
million
(4.3%) vs. 2022

million
2.1% vs. 2022

Cash flows from
operating activities

Free cash flow (1)

$7,946

$3,144

Retail TV (2) (5)

Retail residential network
access services (NAS) lines (2) (5)

million
(5.0%) vs. 2022

million
2.5% vs. 2022

1

MD&A Overview

million
2.1% vs. 2022

Net earnings attributable
to common shareholders

Adjusted EBITDA (1)

BCE customer connections
Total mobile phones (3)

+3.4%

10.3 million subscribers
at the end of 2023

Retail high-speed
Internet (2) (4) (5)

+5.0%
4.5 million subscribers
at the end of 2023

(1.0%)

2.7 million subscribers
at the end of 2023

(7.7%)

2.0 million subscribers
at the end of 2023

(1) Adjusted EBITDA is a total of segments measure, and adjusted net earnings and free cash flow are non-GAAP financial measures. See section 11.3, Total of segments measures and section
11.1, Non-GAAP financial measures in this MD&A for more information on these measures.
(2) In Q2 2023, our retail high-speed Internet, retail IPTV and retail residential NAS lines subscriber bases increased by 35,080, 243 and 7,458 subscribers, respectively, as a result of small
acquisitions.
(3) In Q1 2023, we adjusted our mobile phone postpaid subscriber base to remove older non-revenue generating business subscribers of 73,229.
(4) In Q1 2023, subsequent to a review of customer account records, our retail high-speed Internet subscriber base was reduced by 7,347 subscribers.
(5) In Q4 2022, as a result of the acquisition of Distributel Communications Limited (Distributel), our retail high-speed Internet, retail IPTV and retail residential NAS lines subscriber bases
increased by 128,065, 2,315 and 64,498 subscribers, respectively.

74

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

1.2 About BCE
Our 2023 results are reported in two segments: Bell CTS and Bell Media. We describe our products and services by segment in this section,
to provide further insight into our operations.

Our products and services
Bell CTS
Segment description

• Provides a wide range of communication products and services to consumers, businesses

Our brands include

and government customers across Canada.

• Wireless products and services include mobile data and voice plans and devices and are
available nationally.

• Wireline products and services comprise data (including Internet access, IPTV, cloud-based

MD&A Overview

Our products
and services

1

Our
networks

services and business solutions), voice, and other communication services and products,
which are available to our residential, small and medium-sized business and large enterprise
customers primarily in Ontario, Québec, the Atlantic provinces and Manitoba, while satellite
TV service and connectivity to business customers are available nationally across Canada.

• Includes our wholesale business, which buys and sells local telephone, long distance, data

and other services from or to resellers and other carriers, and the wireline operations of
Northwestel Inc. (Northwestel), which provides telecommunications services in Canada’s
Northern Territories.

• Includes the results of operations of our national consumer electronics retailer, The Source.

Subsequent to year end, Bell Canada announced a strategic partnership with Best Buy
Canada to operate 165 The Source consumer electronics retail stores in Canada, which will
be rebranded as Best Buy Express and offer the latest in consumer electronics from Best Buy
along with exclusive telecommunications services from Bell. In addition, Bell will wind down
The Source head office and back office operations, as well as close 107 The Source stores.

Our networks and reach

• Peak theoretical mobile data access download speeds: 5G+, up to

The vast majority of our cell towers are connected with fibre, the latest
network infrastructure technology, for a faster and more reliable
connection.

• Reverts to LTE/LTE-A technology and speeds when customers are

We hold wireless spectrum licences, with holdings across various
spectrum bands and regions across Canada, totalling more than
6.4 billion megahertz per population (MHz-Pop), corresponding
to an average of approximately 182 megahertz (MHz) of spectrum
per Canadian (1).

Our Fourth Generation (4G) Long-term Evolution (LTE) nationwide
wireless broadband network is compatible with global standards and
delivers high-quality and reliable voice and high-speed data services
coast to coast to virtually all of the Canadian population. 5G and 5G+
are the next generation of wireless technology, offering faster speeds
and lower latency. Our LTE network will be the backbone for our 5G
network as it expands across Canada.

• LTE coverage of over 99% of Canada’s population, with LTE Advanced
(LTE-A) covering 95% of Canada’s population, and 5G coverage of 86%
of Canada’s population, with 5G+ covering 51% of Canada’s population
at December 31, 2023

3 gigabit(s) per second (Gbps) in select markets; 5G, up to 1.7 Gbps
(average expected speeds of 89 to 705 megabits per second (Mbps)
in markets across Canada); LTE-A, up to 1.5 Gbps (average expected
speeds of 25 to 325 Mbps) in markets across Canada; LTE, up to
150 Mbps (expected average speeds of 18 to 40 Mbps); high-speed
packet access plus (HSPA+), up to 42 Mbps (expected average speeds
of 7 to 14 Mbps) (2)
outside 5G and 5G+ coverage areas

• Bell also operates a LTE-category M1 (LTE-M) network, which is a

subset of our LTE network, supporting low-power Internet of Things
(IoT) applications with enhanced coverage, longer device battery life
and enabling lower costs for IoT devices connecting to Bell’s national
network. Our LTE-M network is available in most Canadian provinces.

• Extensive local access network in Ontario, Québec, the Atlantic
provinces and Manitoba, as well as in Canada’s Northern Territories

• Fibre-to-the-premise (FTTP) footprint covering over 7 million homes

and businesses in Ontario, Québec, the Atlantic provinces and Manitoba

(1) Bell secured the right to acquire 3800 MHz spectrum licences in the auction completed in November 2023, which will increase our overall wireless spectrum holdings to more than
8.2 billion MHz-Pop, corresponding to an average of approximately 234 MHz of spectrum per Canadian.
(2) Network speeds vary with location, signal and customer device. Compatible device required.

75

• Wireless-to-the-premise (WTTP) footprint covering approximately

1 million locations primarily in rural areas. WTTP is 5G-capable fixed
wireless technology delivered over Bell’s LTE wireless network that
provides broadband residential Internet access to smaller and
underserved communities.

• Largest Internet protocol (IP) multi-protocol label switching footprint

1

MD&A Overview

of any Canadian provider, enabling us to offer business customers
a virtual private network (VPN) service for IP traffic and to optimize
bandwidth for real-time voice and TV

We have approximately 9,000 retail points of distribution across
Canada, including approximately 1,000 Bell, Virgin Plus, Lucky Mobile
(Lucky) and The Source locations, as well as Glentel-operated locations
(WIRELESSWAVE, Tbooth wireless and WIRELESS etc.) and other thirdparty dealer and retail locations. Subsequent to year end, we announced
a strategic partnership with Best Buy Canada to operate 165 The Source
consumer electronics retail stores in Canada, which will be rebranded
as Best Buy Express and offer the latest in consumer electronics from
Best Buy along with exclusive telecommunications services from Bell.
In addition, Bell will wind down The Source head office and back office
operations, as well as close 107 The Source stores.

Our wireless products and services

• Data and voice plans: From plans focused on affordability to premium

services, we have plans that cater to all customer segments, available
on either postpaid or prepaid options, including unlimited data,
shareable, device financing plans and Connect Everything plans. Our
services provide fast Internet access for video, social networking,
messaging and mobile applications, as well as a host of call features.

• Specialized plans: for tablets, smartwatches, Connected Car, mobile
Internet, trackers, laptops and security cameras

• Extensive selection of devices: the latest 5G and 5G+ smartphones,

tablets, smartwatches, mobile Internet devices and connected things
(Bell Connected Car, trackers, connected home, lifestyle and virtual
reality)

• Travel: international roaming in over 230 destinations, with LTE roaming
in 211 destinations and 5G roaming in 87 destinations

• Mobile business solutions: push-to-talk, field service management,
worker safety and mobility management

• IoT solutions: fleet management, asset management, smart supply

chain, building and site management, municipal operations, integrated
smart city ecosystem with Esri

Our wireline products and services

residential
• Internet: high-speed Internet access through fibre-optic broadband

technology, 5G-capable WTTP technology or digital subscriber line (DSL)
with a wide range of options, including reliable Wi-Fi, unlimited usage,
security services and mobile Internet. Our Internet service, marketed
as Fibe Internet, offers symmetrical download and upload speeds of
up to 3 Gbps with FTTP, or download speeds of up to 100 Mbps with
Fibre-to-the-node (FTTN), while our Wireless Home Internet (WHI)
fixed wireless service delivers broadband download speeds of up to
50 Mbps. We also offer Internet service under the Virgin Plus brand
offering download speeds of up to 300 Mbps.

• TV: IPTV services (Fibe TV, Fibe TV app and Virgin Plus TV) and satellite

TV service. Bell’s new Fibe TV service powered by Google Android TV
technology provides extensive live and on-demand content options
with 4K resolution (4K) picture quality and capabilities and features
including access to thousands of apps, voice remote powered by
Google Assistant, universal search, cloud personal video recorder
(PVR), compact 4K high dynamic range (HDR) receiver and access to
the Fibe TV app. The Fibe TV app live TV streaming service offers live
and on-demand programming on Bell Streamer, Apple TV, Amazon
Fire TV, Google Chromecast, Android TV devices, smartphones, tablets
and computers. Bell Streamer is a 4K HDR streaming device powered
by Android TV offering all-in-one access to the Fibe TV app, support
for all major streaming services and access to over 10,000 apps from
Google Play. We also offer an app-based live TV streaming service
branded as Virgin Plus TV.

• Home Phone: local telephone service, long distance and advanced
calling features

• Smart Home: home security, monitoring and automation services
from Bell Smart Home

• Bundles: multi-product bundles of Internet, TV, home phone, mobility
and smart home services with monthly discounts

Business
• Internet and network solutions: through our advanced technologies

and end-to-end network, cloud and security expertise, Bell is a
network transformation partner of choice for Canadian businesses.
Our solutions include business Internet, software-defined solutions,
private networks, global networks, managed and professional services.

• Voice and Collaboration: we offer a variety of voice and collaboration

solutions, including unified communications as a service (UCaaS),
traditional local and long distance phone services, cloud-based
voice over IP (VoIP) services and advanced solutions with custom
calling features

• Cloud: Bell supports every stage of businesses’ cloud journey with

cloud, network and security expertise, an advanced partner ecosystem
and advanced hybrid multi-cloud solutions. Our cloud solutions
include professional and managed services, public multi-access edge
computing (MEC) with Amazon Web Services (AWS) Wavelength, cloud
connect, and backup and disaster recovery.

• Security: we offer a full suite of solutions to address businesses’

security concerns, including network security, cloud security and
managed and professional services

• Contact centre: we offer scalable, cloud-based contact centre

solutions that include artificial intelligence (AI)-enhanced features,
enabling omnichannel experiences and flexible, hybrid work styles

76

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Bell Media
Segment description

• Canada’s leading content creation company with premier

Our brands include

assets in TV, radio and OOH, monetized through traditional
and digital platforms

• Revenues are derived primarily from advertising and
subscriber fees

• Conventional TV, radio and OOH revenues are derived
from advertising

• Pay TV revenue is derived from subscription fees
• Direct-to-consumer (DTC) streaming services revenue is
derived from subscription fees and advertising

Our assets and reach

tV
• 35 conventional TV stations including CTV, Canada’s #1 network

for 22 consecutive years, #1 Canadian advertising-based video on
demand (AVOD) platform CTV.ca and leading digital news destination
CTVNews.ca, and the French-language Noovo network in Québec,
including its popular AVOD platform and digital news destination
Noovo.info

• Warner Bros. Discovery: Crave extended a long-term licensing

agreement with Warner Bros. Discovery that sees Crave continuing to be
the home of HBO and Max Originals, as well as new cable series, library
television series, and pay and post-pay window rights for Warner Bros.
films. The agreement also feeds CTV, CTV.ca, the CTV app, and Bell Media’s
suite of Specialty channels with Warner Bros. Discovery’s iconic content.

• STARZ: long-term agreement with Lionsgate for premium STARZ
programming in Canada

• 26 specialty TV channels, including TSN, Canada’s sports leader and

• iHeartRadio: exclusive partnership for digital and streaming music

RDS, the top French-language sports network

services in Canada

• 4 pay TV services and 5 streaming services, including Crave, the

other assets
• Equity interest in Dome Productions Partnership, one of North America’s

exclusive home of HBO and Max Originals in Canada, TSN and RDS

radio
• 103 licensed radio stations in 58 markets across Canada, all available
through iHeartRadio.ca and the iHeartRadio Canada app alongside an
extensive catalogue of podcasts. In June 2023, Bell Media announced
its intent to divest 3 of the 103 radio stations and on February 8, 2024,
Bell Media announced its intent to divest an additional 45 of its radio
stations to seven buyers, subject to Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) review and other closing
conditions.

ooH advertising
• Network of strategically located advertising faces spanning across
the country in 20 of Canada’s largest cities

Broadcast rights
• Sports: long-term media rights to key sports properties and official

Canadian broadcaster of the Super Bowl, Grey Cup and International
Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) World Junior Championship. Live sports
coverage includes the Toronto Maple Leafs, Montréal Canadiens,
Winnipeg Jets and Ottawa Senators, Canadian Football League (CFL),
National Football League (NFL), National Basketball Association (NBA),
Professional Women’s Hockey League (PWHL), Major League Soccer
(MLS), Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) World
Cup events, Curling’s Season of Champions, Major League Baseball
(MLB), Golf’s Majors, NASCAR, Formula 1 (F1), Grand Slam Tennis, National
Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) March Madness, and more.

1

MD&A Overview

• Specialty TV revenue is generated from subscription fees
and advertising

leading providers of sports and other event production and broadcast
facilities

• Montréal’s Octane Racing Group Inc., promoter of the F1 Canadian
Grand Prix, the largest annual sports and tourism event in the country

• Minority interest in Montréal’s Grandé Studios, a Montréal-based
multipurpose TV, film and equipment company which provides
production facilities, equipment rentals, and technical services

Our products and services

• Varied and extensive array of video content to broadcast distributors
across Canada

• Advertising on our TV, radio, digital and OOH properties to both local
and national advertisers across a wide range of industry sectors

• Crave bilingual subscription-based on-demand premium video

streaming service offering a large collection of premium content in
one place, including HBO, Max, STARZ, and original French-language
programming, on set-top boxes (STBs), mobile devices, streaming
devices and online. Crave is offered through a number of Canadian TV
providers, and is available directly to all Canadian Internet subscribers
as an OTT service.

• TSN, TSN+, and RDS streaming services offering live and on-demand

TSN and RDS content directly to consumers through an annual or
monthly subscription on computers, tablets, mobile devices, Apple
TV and other streaming devices

77

Other BCE investments
BCE also holds investments in a number of other assets, including:

• a 37.5% indirect equity interest in MLSE, a sports and entertainment company that owns several sports teams,

including the Toronto Maple Leafs, the Toronto Raptors, Toronto FC and the Toronto Argonauts, as well as real
estate and entertainment assets in Toronto

• a 50% indirect equity interest in Glentel, a Canadian-based connected services retailer
• a 20.2% indirect equity interest in entities that operate the Montréal Canadiens Hockey Club, evenko (a promoter

1

MD&A Overview

and producer of cultural and sports events) and the Bell Centre in Montréal, Québec, as well as Place Bell
in Laval, Québec

Our people
Our
people

Employees

BCE

At the end of 2023, our team consisted
of 45,132 employees, an increase
of 522 employees, compared to the
44,610 employees at the end of 2022,
driven by the acquisition of FX Innovation
in June 2023, and other small acquisitions
made during the year, along with greater
hiring at our customer service centres,
partly offset by natural attrition, retirements
and workforce reductions.
Approximately 42% of total BCE employees
were represented by labour unions at
December 31, 2023.

Employees
Bell CTS

Bell Media

13%

12%

44,610

45,132

87%

88%

2022

2023

Bell code of business conduct

The ethical business conduct of our people is core to the integrity with which we operate our business. The Bell Code of Business Conduct sets
out specific expectations and accountabilities, providing employees with practical guidelines to conduct business in an ethical manner. Our
commitment to the Code of Business Conduct is renewed by employees each year in an ongoing effort to ensure that all employees are aware
of, and adhere to, Bell’s standards of conduct.

1.3 Key corporate developments
Our
networks

Our customers
and relationships

Our products
and services

Our
people

Our financial
resources

This section contains forward-looking statements, including relating to BCE’s capital expenditures and network deployment plans, the cost
savings and other benefits expected to result from workforce reductions as well as estimated related severance payments, the expected timing
and completion of the proposed acquisition of the Canadian OOH media business of OUTFRONT Media Inc. and the benefits expected to result
therefrom, and our objectives and plans. Refer to the section Caution regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of this MD&A.

Reduction in capital expenditures and fibre expansion
Further to the CRTC decision of November 6, 2023 that imposed an interim aggregated access to FTTP facilities obligation, Bell announced its
intention to reduce capital expenditures by over $1 billion over 2024 and 2025 combined, including a minimum of $500 million in 2024, that the
company had planned to invest in bringing high-speed fibre Internet to hundreds of thousands of additional homes and businesses in rural,
suburban and urban communities. This reduction is in addition to Bell investing $105 million less than planned in Q4 2023 as a result of the CRTC’s
decision. Prior to the decision, Bell’s near-term plan was to build high-speed fibre to 9 million locations by the end of 2025. As a direct result of
federal government policies and the CRTC’s decision that discourages network investment, Bell is slowing the pace of fibre footprint expansion
to a near-term target of 8.3 million locations by the end of 2025 and capping fibre speeds at 3 Gbps.

78

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Workforce restructuring
In light of an operating environment that is being reshaped by increasingly unsupportive federal government policies and regulatory decisions,
an economy with high interest rates and continued inflation, increasing competition, and evolving consumer preferences, Bell is taking action to
lower its cost structure and align costs to the revenue potential of each business segment. This includes Bell’s largest workforce restructuring
initiative in nearly 30 years, that will result in the reduction of our workforce by approximately 4,800 positions, or 9% of all BCE employees
in 2024. These workforce reductions are expected to yield in-year cost savings of $150 million to $200 million for 2024, or $250 million on an
annualized basis. Severance payments related to the restructuring initiative could amount to up to approximately $400 million.

Strategic partnership with Best Buy Canada

1

Bell secured additional mid-band spectrum licences through Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada (ISED)’s 3800 MHz spectrum
auction completed in November 2023, to continue bringing fast and reliable 5G+ wireless service to more people and businesses across Canada.
Bell secured 939 licences covering 1.77 billion MHz-Pop of 3800 MHz spectrum for $518 million. This acquisition complements Bell’s existing 3500
MHz spectrum holdings, providing the company with 100 MHz of 3500 MHz and 3800 MHz cross-band spectrum across approximately 99%
of Canada’s population. Bell will have access to an industry-leading 3.5 billion MHz-Pop of 5G+ spectrum (combining the 3500 MHz and 3800
MHz spectrum bands), acquired at a total cost of $2.78 billion, the lowest among national wireless carriers.

MD&A Overview

Acquisition of 3800 MHz wireless spectrum

On January 18, 2024, Bell announced a strategic partnership with Best Buy Canada to operate 165 The Source consumer electronics retail stores
in Canada, which will be rebranded as Best Buy Express. Bell will be the exclusive telecommunications provider, selling wireless and wireline (in
footprint) services from its Bell, Virgin Plus and Lucky Mobile brands, as well as remain responsible for store operations and labour. Best Buy
will assume responsibility for the consumer electronics assortment and procurement, as well as branding, marketing and e-commerce. Best
Buy Express is expected to open locations across Canada starting in the second half of 2024. On February 8, 2024, Bell announced that with
the strengths of Best Buy’s buying power and supply chain, Bell will wind down The Source head office and back office operations, as well as
close 107 The Source stores.

Proposed acquisition of Canadian out-of-home media business of OUTFRONT
Media Inc.
On October 23, 2023, Bell Media announced it plans to acquire the Canadian out-of-home media business of OUTFRONT Media Inc. The transaction
is valued at $410 million, subject to certain adjustments, and is expected to close in the first half of 2024, subject to regulatory approval and other
closing conditions. The acquisition of the Canadian out-of-home media business of OUTFRONT Media Inc. is expected to support Bell Media’s
digital media strategy and to deliver impactful, multi-channel marketing solutions coast-to-coast. The results of the Canadian out-of-home
media business of OUTFRONT Media Inc. will be included in our Bell Media segment.

Curtis Millen appointed as Chief Financial Officer
On September 1, 2023, Curtis Millen became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of BCE and Bell Canada following the
retirement of Glen LeBlanc from such position. A Bell leader since 2008, Mr. Millen was most recently Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy
and Treasurer, head of Bell Ventures and President of Bimcor Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bell that is one of the largest private sector
pension fund management companies in Canada. Glen LeBlanc remains as Special Advisor and Vice-Chair, Bell Atlantic, and maintains his
position as Chair of Northwestel and as Board member and Chair of the Audit Committee for MLSE.

Bell Media leadership change
On November 1, 2023, Sean Cohan assumed leadership of Bell Media and joined the BCE leadership team, following the retirement of Wade
Oosterman as President of Bell Media. Mr. Cohan joined Bell Media after having progressed through increasingly senior executive responsibilities
in his time in media and consumer businesses, including a 15-year tenure at A+E Networks ultimately in the role of President, International
and Digital Media. He and his A+E teams are credited with driving global content, digital, and commercial transformation and notable growth
across the business.

79

1.4 Capital markets strategy
Our financial
resources

1

MD&A Overview

This section contains forward-looking statements, including relating to BCE’s dividend growth objective, 2024 annualized common share dividend
and dividend payout ratio level, and dividend payout policy target, BCE’s financial policy target, anticipated capital expenditures and network
deployment plans, and our business outlook, objectives and plans. Refer to the section Caution regarding forward-looking statements at the
beginning of this MD&A.
We seek to deliver shareholder returns through dividend growth. This objective is underpinned by substantial free cash flow generation and a
strong balance sheet, supporting ongoing capital investment on advanced broadband networks and services that are essential to driving the
long-term growth of our business.

Dividend growth and payout policy
Dividend yield (1)

2024 dividend increase

7.4%

+3.1%

in 2023

to $3.99 per common share

On February 8, 2024, we announced a 3.1%, or 12 cents, increase in
the annualized dividend payable on BCE’s common shares for 2024
to $3.99 per share from $3.87 per share in 2023, starting with the
quarterly dividend payable on April 15, 2024.
Our objective seeks to achieve dividend growth while maintaining our
dividend payout ratio within the target policy range of 65% to 75% of
free cash flow and balancing our strategic business priorities. BCE’s
dividend payout policy, increases in the common share dividend and the
declaration of dividends are subject to the discretion of the BCE Board of
Directors (BCE Board) and, consequently, there can be no guarantee that
BCE’s dividend policy will be maintained or achieved, that the dividend
on common shares will be increased or that dividends will be declared.

Dividend payout (2) policy

65%–75%
of free cash flow

As at December 31, 2023, our dividend payout ratio was 111%, compared
to 108% at December 31, 2022, which is higher than our policy range due
to elevated capital expenditures compared to pre-2020 annual levels
as we continued to make generational investments in our networks to
support the buildout of our fibre, 5G and 5G+ network infrastructure.
Although a significant reduction in capital expenditures is planned
in 2024, due largely to government policy, they are expected to remain
higher than pre-2020 annual levels. In addition, free cash flow in 2024
will be adversely impacted by significantly higher severance payments
related to workforce restructuring initiatives, higher interest paid and
lower cash from working capital. As a result, BCE’s dividend payout
ratio will remain above our target policy range in 2024.

Executive compensation alignment
BCE is focused on a pay-for-performance approach for all team
members, including our executives. In order to attract, motivate and
retain top talent, the company offers a competitive total compensation
package.

• Base salary: rewards the scope and responsibilities of a position, with
target positioning at the median of our comparator group.

• Annual incentive: encourages strong performance against yearly
corporate and individual objectives.

• Long-term incentive: aligns with long-term interests of shareholders.

Best practices
adopted by
BCE for executive
compensation

The mix of vehicles awarded under BCE’s long-term incentive plan
favours the execution of multiple objectives. They are structured to
create sustainable value for shareholders by attracting, motivating
and retaining the executive officers needed to drive the business
strategy, and rewarding them for delivering on our goal of advancing
how Canadians connect with each other and the world, through the
successful execution of our six strategic imperatives. We have strong
alignment of interest between shareholders and management through
our equity-based incentive plans.

• Stringent share ownership requirements
• Emphasis on pay at risk for executive compensation
• Double trigger change-in-control policy
• Anti-hedging policy on share ownership and incentive compensation
• Clawbacks for the President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and
all Executive Vice-Presidents as well as all option holders

• Caps on BCE supplemental executive retirement plans and annual
bonus payouts, in addition to long-term incentive grants
• Vesting criteria aligned to shareholder interests

(1) Annualized dividend per BCE common share divided by BCE’s share price at the end of the year.
(2) Dividend payout ratio is a non-GAAP ratio. Refer to section 11.2, Non-GAAP ratios in this MD&A for more information on this measure.

80

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Capital markets priorities

• Funding of strategic acquisitions and investments (including wireless
spectrum purchases) that support the growth of our business

In 2023, excess free cash flow (1) was negative $342 million, down
from negative $245 million in 2022. The year-over-year decrease was
primarily attributable to lower cash flows from operating activities of
$7,946 million, which decreased by $419 million year over year, mainly
due to lower cash from working capital, in part from timing of supplier
payments, and higher interest paid. These factors were partly offset by
higher adjusted EBITDA and lower contributions to post-employment
benefit plans.

• Debt reduction
• Share buybacks through normal course issuer bid programs

Total shareholder return performance
Five-year total
shareholder return (2)

One-year total
shareholder return (2)

(6.2%)

2019–2023

1

+29.5%

MD&A Overview

Consistent with our capital markets objective to deliver shareholder
returns through dividend growth, while maintaining appropriate
levels of capital investment, investment-grade credit ratings and
considerable overall financial flexibility, we deploy excess free cash
flow and divestiture proceeds, when available, in a balanced manner
and on uses that include, but are not limited to:

2023

Five-year cumulative total value of a $100 investment (3)

December 31, 2018 – December 31, 2023

This graph compares the yearly change in the cumulative annual total
shareholder return of BCE common shares against the cumulative annual
total return of the S&P Global Ratings Canada (S&P)/TSX Composite
Index (4), for the five-year period ending December 31, 2023, assuming
an initial investment of $100 on December 31, 2018 and the quarterly
reinvestment of all dividends.

$200
$175
$150
$125
$100
$75
2018
2019
BCE common shares

2020
2021
S&P/TSX Composite Index

2022

2023

(1) Excess free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. Refer to section 11.1, Non-GAAP financial measures in this MD&A for more information on this measure.
(2) Shareholder return is defined as the change in BCE’s common share price for a specified period plus BCE common share dividends reinvested, divided by BCE’s common share price at
the beginning of the period.
(3) Based on BCE’s common share price on the TSX and assuming the reinvestment of dividends.
(4) As the headline index for the Canadian equity market, the S&P/TSX Composite Index is the primary gauge against which to measure total shareholder return for Canadian-based, TSX-listed
companies.

81

Strong capital structure

MD&A Overview

BCE’s balance sheet is underpinned by a healthy available liquidity (1) position of $5.8 billion at the end of 2023, comprised of $547 million in cash,
$225 million in cash equivalents, $1,000 million in short-term investments, $700 million available under our securitized receivables program and
$3.3 billion available under our $3.5 billion committed revolving and expansion credit facilities, and an investment-grade credit profile, providing
the company with a solid financial foundation and a high level of overall financial flexibility. BCE has an attractive long-term debt maturity profile
with all 2024 maturities already pre-funded. We continue to monitor the capital markets for opportunities to lower our cost of debt and optimize
our cost of capital. We seek to proactively manage financial risk in terms of currency exposure of our U.S. dollar-denominated purchases, as
well as equity risk exposure under BCE’s long-term equity-based incentive plans and interest rate and foreign currency exposure under our
various debt instruments. We also seek to maintain investment-grade credit ratings with stable outlooks.

Attractive long-term public
debt maturity profile

• Average term of Bell Canada’s

publicly issued debt securities:
approximately 12 years (2)

• Average after-tax cost of publicly

1

issued debt securities: 3.0% (2)

• All publicly issued debt securities

maturing in 2024 already pre-funded

Strong liquidity position (2)

• $3.3 billion available under

our $3.5 billion multi-year committed
credit facilities

• $700 million receivables securitization
available capacity
• $547 million cash
• $225 million cash equivalents
• $1,000 million short-term investments

We monitor our capital structure by utilizing a number of measures,
principally net debt leverage ratio and dividend payout ratio.
At December 31, 2023, our net debt leverage ratio (1) was 3.48 times
adjusted EBITDA, an increase from 3.30 times adjusted EBITDA at
December 31, 2022, due mostly to ongoing elevated capital expenditures.
These leverage levels exceeded our internal target range of 2.0 to
2.5 times adjusted EBITDA as we have been in a cycle of strategically
accelerating our pace of capital expenditures to advance our network
and transformation investments, acquiring wireless spectrum, financing
a number of strategic acquisitions and making voluntary pension plan
funding contributions. As well, our net debt leverage ratio was adversely
affected by COVID-19 impacts on our business and the adoption of IFRS 16
that added $2.3 billion of lease liabilities to net debt (1) on our balance
sheet on January 1, 2019. Our objective is to see our net debt leverage
ratio decline over time to be in the range of 3.0 times adjusted EBITDA.
While currently in excess of this level, our net debt leverage ratio is still
consistent with a strong balance sheet, ample financial flexibility and
investment grade credit ratings.
This new objective is higher than the previous target for our net debt
leverage ratio, which was established several years ago. Since that
time, our leverage level has largely exceeded that target and yet we
have maintained adequate financial flexibility through various market
conditions. Moreover, at the time of setting our previous targets, we had
sizeable pension funding deficits. We currently have sizeable surpluses.
While pension funding deficits and surpluses are not factored into the
net debt leverage ratio, the deficits represented a potential future
cash funding requirement while the current surpluses allow us to take
contribution holidays, enhancing our financial flexibility. We believe the
new objective of 3.0 times adjusted EBITDA is reflective of our operational
size and strength, an optimized cost of capital, and is aligned with the
expectations of our investors, lenders and other stakeholders.

Investment-grade
credit profile (2) (3)

• Long-term debt credit rating of

BBB (high) by DBRS Limited (DBRS),
Baa 1 by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.
(Moody’s) and BBB+ by S&P, all with
stable outlooks

BCE’s adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio (1) at the end
of 2023 was 6.94 times adjusted EBITDA, which was below our internal
target of greater than 7.5 times adjusted EBITDA due to an increase in
interest expense in 2023 attributable to higher average debt balances
and higher interest rates. Given the correlation between this ratio and
the net debt leverage ratio, we are simplifying our internal targets to
reflect the net debt leverage ratio only and will not report against the
adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio target in the
future. We believe that this ratio is of less relative importance to our
investors, lenders and other stakeholders as a measure of the strength
of our capital structure.
Internal
target

december 31,
2023

december 31,
2022

Net debt leverage ratio

3.0

3.48

3.30

Adjusted EBITDA to adjusted
net interest expense ratio

n/a

6.94

8.50

BCE credit ratios

Bell Canada successfully accessed the debt capital markets in
February 2023, May 2023, August 2023 and November 2023, raising
a total of $3.5 billion in gross proceeds from the issuance in Canada of
medium-term note (MTN) debentures, and $850 million in U.S. dollars
($1,138 million in Canadian dollars) in gross proceeds from the issuance
of notes in the U.S. Both the Canadian-dollar and U.S.-dollar issuances
contributed to maintaining our after-tax cost of outstanding publicly
issued debt securities relatively stable at approximately 3.0% (4.1% on
a pre-tax basis) and the average term to maturity at approximately
12 years. The net proceeds of the 2023 offerings were used to fund the
repayment of Bell Canada’s $1 billion 2.70% Series M-44 MTN debentures,
to repay short-term debt and for general corporate purposes.

(1) Available liquidity and net debt are non-GAAP financial measures and net debt leverage ratio and adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio are capital management measures.
See section 11.1, Non-GAAP financial measures and section 11.4, Capital management measures in this MD&A for more information on these measures.
(2) As at December 31, 2023
(3) These credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of the securities referred to, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the assigning rating agency.
Ratings are determined by the rating agencies based on criteria established from time to time by them, and they do not comment on market price or suitability for a particular investor.
Each credit rating should be evaluated independently of any other credit rating.

82

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Subsequent to year end, on February 15, 2024, Bell Canada issued
5.200% Series US-9 Notes with a principal amount of $700 million in U.S.
dollars ($942 million in Canadian dollars), which mature on February 15,
2034. Additionally, on the same date, Bell Canada issued 5.550% Series
US-10 Notes with a principal amount of $750 million in U.S. dollars
($1,009 million in Canadian dollars), which mature on February 15,
2054. The net proceeds of the offering are intended to be used for the

repayment at maturity of Bell Canada’s US $600 million US-3 Notes
due on March 17, 2024, to fund the remaining payment for the 3800
MHz spectrum licences secured by Bell Mobility Inc. (Bell Mobility)
through the Canadian government’s 3800 MHz spectrum auction, and
other general corporate purposes, which may include the repayment
of short-term debt.

Corporate governance philosophy
The Board and management of BCE believe that strong corporate governance practices contribute to superior results in creating and maintaining
shareholder value. That is why we continually seek to strengthen our corporate governance practices and ethical business conduct by aiming
to adopt best practices, and providing full transparency and accountability to our shareholders. The Board is responsible for the supervision
of the business and affairs of the company.

Directors are ALL Independent (except CEO)
99.6% 2023 Board and Committee Director Attendance Record

1

Below are our key Board information and governance best practices:

MD&A Overview

1.5 Corporate governance and risk management

Directors’ Tenure Guidelines

Board Committee Members are All Independent

Board Renewal: 7 Non-Executive Director
Nominees ≤ 7 Years Tenure

Board Diversity Policy and Target for Gender Representation

Share Ownership Guideline for Directors and Executives

Annual Election of All Directors

Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Program

Directors Elected Individually

Annual Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation

Majority Voting for Directors

Formal Board Evaluation Process

Separate Chair and CEO

Board Risk Oversight Practices

Board Interlocks Guidelines

ESG Strategy Reviewed by Board
Robust Succession Planning

For more information, please refer to BCE’s most recent notice of annual general shareholder meeting and management proxy circular (the
Proxy Circular) filed with the Canadian provincial securities regulatory authorities (available at sedarplus.ca) and furnished to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission (available at sec.gov), and available on BCE’s website at BCE.ca.

Risk governance framework
Board oversight

BCE’s full Board is entrusted with the responsibility for identifying and
overseeing the principal risks to which our business is exposed and
seeking to ensure there are processes in place to effectively identify,
monitor and manage them. These processes seek to mitigate rather
than eliminate risk. A risk is the possibility that an event might happen
in the future that could have a negative effect on our business, financial
condition, liquidity, financial results or reputation. While the Board has
overall responsibility for risk, the responsibility for certain elements of
the risk oversight program is delegated to Board committees in order
to ensure that they are treated with appropriate expertise, attention
and diligence, with reporting to the Board on a regular basis.

Board
of directors

Risk and
Pension Fund
Committee

Audit
Committee

Compensation
Committee

Governance
Committee

83

Risk information is reviewed by the Board or the relevant committee
throughout the year, and business leaders present regular updates on
the execution of business strategies, risks and mitigation.

1

MD&A Overview

• The Risk and Pension Fund Committee has oversight responsibility for

the organization’s risk governance framework, which exists to identify,
assess, mitigate and report key risks to which BCE is exposed. As part of
its Charter, the Risk and Pension Fund Committee is tasked with oversight
of risks relating to business continuity plans, work stoppage and disaster
recovery plans, regulatory and public policy, information management
and privacy, information security (including cyber security), physical
security, fraud, vendor and supply chain management, ESG (including
climate change), the pension fund, network resiliency and other risks
as required. The Risk and Pension Fund Committee receives reports
on security matters, including information security (including cyber
security), and on environmental matters, each quarter.

functions, while also providing the Audit Committee, and other Board
committees as required, with an independent perspective on the state
of risk and control within the organization. Collectively, these elements
can be thought of as a “three lines” approach to risk management.
Although the risk management framework described in this section 1.5 is
aligned with industry practices, there can be no assurance that it will
be sufficient to prevent the occurrence of events that could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity,
financial results or reputation.

Board and
Committees

oversight

• The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the integrity of
our financial statements and related information, management’s
assessment and reporting on the effectiveness of internal controls,
and risk processes as they relate to financial reporting.

• The Management Resources and Compensation Committee
(Compensation Committee) oversees risks relating to compensation,
succession planning and workplace policies and practices.

operational
Business units

1st line
functions

risk and
control
environment

Internal
audit

3rd line
assurance
function

• The Corporate Governance Committee (Governance Committee)
assists the Board in developing and implementing BCE’s corporate
governance principles and guidelines, identifying individuals qualified to
become members of the Board, and determining the composition of the
Board and its committees. The Governance Committee is responsible
for oversight of our ESG strategy (including climate change strategy
and climate-related matters, and supply chain labour issues), and
its integration within our overall business strategy, and disclosure.
The Governance Committee is also responsible for oversight of
the company’s policies concerning business conduct, ethics, public
disclosure of material information and AI governance.

Risk management culture

There is a strong culture of risk management at BCE that is actively
promoted by the Board, the Risk and Pension Fund Committee and the
President and CEO, at all levels within the organization. It is a part of
how the company operates on a day-to-day basis and is woven into
its structure and operating principles, guiding the implementation of
the organization’s strategic imperatives.
The President and CEO, selected by the Board, has set his strategic focus
through the establishment of six strategic imperatives and focuses risk
management around the factors that could impact the achievement
of those strategic imperatives. While the constant state of change in
the economic environment and the industry creates challenges that
need to be managed, clarity around strategic objectives, performance
expectations, risk management and integrity in execution ensures
discipline and balance in all aspects of our business.

Risk management framework

While the Board is responsible for BCE’s risk oversight program,
operational business units are central to the proactive identification
and management of risk. They are supported by a range of corporate
support functions that provide independent expertise to reinforce
implementation of risk management approaches in collaboration with
the operational business units. The Internal Audit function provides a
further element of expertise and assurance, working to provide insight
and support to the operational business units and corporate support

84

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Corporate

2nd line
support
functions

First line – operational business units
The first line refers to management within our operational business
units, who are expected to understand their operations in great detail
and the financial results that underpin them. There are regular reviews
of operating performance involving the organization’s executive and
senior management. The discipline and precision associated with this
process, coupled with the alignment and focus around performance
goals, creates a high degree of accountability and transparency in
support of our risk management practices.
As risks emerge in the business environment, they are discussed in a
number of regular forums to share details and explore their relevance
across the organization. Executive and senior management are integral
to these activities in driving the identification, assessment, mitigation
and reporting of risks at all levels. Formal risk reporting occurs through
strategic planning sessions, management presentations to the Board
and formal enterprise risk reporting, which is shared with the Board
and the Risk and Pension Fund Committee during the year.
Management is also responsible for maintaining effective internal
controls and for executing risk and control procedures on a day-to-day
basis. Each operational business unit develops its own operating controls
and procedures that fit the needs of its unique environment.

Second line – corporate support functions
BCE is a very large enterprise, with 45,132 employees as at December 31,
2023, multiple business units and a diverse portfolio of risks that is
constantly evolving based on internal and external factors. In a large
organization, it is common to manage certain functions centrally for

Finance function: BCE’s Finance function plays a pivotal role in seeking
to identify, assess and manage risks through a number of activities,
which include financial performance management, external reporting,
pension management, capital management, and oversight and execution
practices related to the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and equivalent
Canadian securities legislation, including the establishment and
maintenance of appropriate internal control over financial reporting. BCE
has also established and maintains disclosure controls and procedures
to seek to ensure that the information it publicly discloses, including
its business risks, is accurately recorded, processed, summarized and
reported on a timely basis. For more details concerning BCE’s internal
control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures,
refer to the Proxy Circular and section 12, Effectiveness of internal
controls, in this MD&A.
Corporate Security function: This function is responsible for all aspects
of security, which requires a deep understanding of the business, the risk
environment and the external stakeholder environment. Based on this
understanding, Corporate Security sets the standards of performance
required across the organization through security policies and directives
that define requirements to protect team members, company assets
and information. In high and emerging risk areas such as information
security, Corporate Security leverages its experience and competence
to develop strategies intended to mitigate the organization’s risks. For
instance, we have implemented security awareness training, policies
and directives that seek to mitigate information security threats. We
further rely on security assessments to identify risks and review projects
with the objective of ensuring that systems are deployed with the
appropriate level of control, including access management, vulnerability
management, security monitoring and testing. We evaluate and seek
to adapt our security policies and directives designed to protect our
information and assets in light of the continuously evolving nature
and sophistication of information security threats. However, given the
complexity and scale of our business, network infrastructure, technology
and IT support systems, there can be no assurance that the security
policies and directives that we implement will prevent the occurrence
of all potential information security breaches. In addition, although
BCE has contracted an insurance policy covering information security
risk, there can be no assurance that any insurance we may have will
cover the costs, damages, liabilities or losses that could result from the
occurrence of any information security breach.

In addition to the activities described above, the second line is also
critical in building and operating the oversight mechanisms that bring
focus to relevant areas of risk and reinforce the bridges between the
first and second lines, thereby seeking to ensure that there is a clear
understanding of emerging risks, their relevance to the organization
and the proposed mitigation plans.
To further coordinate efforts between the first and second lines, BCE has
established a Health and Safety, Security, Environment and Compliance
Oversight Committee (HSSEC Committee). A significant number of
BCE’s most senior leaders are members of the HSSEC Committee,
the purpose of which is to oversee BCE’s strategic security (including
information security), compliance, environmental, and health and
safety risks and opportunities. This cross-functional committee seeks
to ensure that relevant risks are adequately recognized and mitigation
activities are well integrated and aligned across the organization and
are supported with sufficient resources. The HSSEC Committee also
mandates the company’s Energy Board, a working group composed
of business unit employees, including vice-presidents and directors, to
ensure oversight of our overall energy consumption and costs with the
objective of minimizing financial and reputational risks while maximizing
business opportunities. The Energy Board also oversees the progress
made towards meeting our GHG emissions reduction and supplier
engagement targets. In addition, the company’s Climate Resiliency Task
Force, composed of senior vice-presidents, vice-presidents, directors
and managers, reports to the HSSEC Committee and assists in building
a climate resiliency governance to seek to address the potential impacts
of climate change in the short and medium terms.

MD&A Overview

Regulatory function: This function is responsible for the regulatory
portfolio, including an expanding range of obligations set out in new
privacy and data protection laws being enacted in Canada and around
the world. BCE has developed, and maintains, an enhanced Data
Governance Policy that encompasses the protection and appropriate
use of data across its life cycle. A significant element of the data
governance program relies on the Corporate Security activities outlined
below and these two functions work jointly with data owners, data
custodians and other relevant employees to seek to ensure this policy is
appropriately implemented. We recognize that a strong and consistently
applied approach to data governance is essential to maintaining the
social licence necessary to achieve our business objectives. For more
information on our approach to privacy and data security, refer to
section 1.6, Capitals and our corporate responsibility, in this MD&A.

Corporate Risk Management function: This function works across
the company to gather information and report on the organization’s
assessment of its principal risks and the related exposures. Annually,
senior management participate in a risk survey that provides an
important reference point in the overall risk assessment process.

1

efficiency, scale and consistency. While the first line is often central to
identification and management of business risks, in many instances
operational management works collaboratively with, and also relies
on, the corporate functions that make up the second line of support in
these areas. These corporate functions include Regulatory, Finance,
Corporate Security, Corporate Risk Management, Legal, Corporate
Responsibility, Human Resources, Real Estate and Procurement.

The company’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) Board, composed of a
significant number of employees at the senior vice-president, vicepresident and director levels, supports the evolution of our corporate
responsibility strategy. The CR Board has the responsibilities, among
others, to embed corporate responsibility considerations into corporate
and business unit strategies, assist in identifying corporate responsibility
areas for further improvement, establish relevant ESG metrics, respond
to stakeholders’ concerns, review ESG public disclosures, approve
procedures seeking to verify the accuracy of publicly disclosed ESG
information and support various corporate responsibility initiatives. The
CR Board reports on progress to the HSSEC Committee, the co-chairs
of which report to the Risk and Pension Fund Committee, Governance
Committee and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The
CR Board also reports to the BCE Disclosure and Compliance Committee
with regards to the public disclosure of ESG information.

third line – internal audit function
Internal Audit is a part of the overall management information and
control system and has the responsibility to act as an independent
appraisal function. Its purpose is to provide the Audit Committee,
other Board committees, as required, and management with objective
evaluations of the company’s risk and control environment, to support
management in fulfilling BCE’s strategic imperatives and to maintain
an audit presence throughout BCE and its subsidiaries.

85

1.6 Capitals and our corporate responsibility
This section contains forward-looking statements, including relating to our ESG objectives. Refer to the section Caution regarding forwardlooking statements at the beginning of this MD&A and to the sub-section Assumptions at the end of this section 1.6. For explanations of certain
climate-related terms, metrics and targets used in this section 1.6 including, without limitation, carbon neutral, science-based targets and net
zero, please refer to Explanation of certain climate-related terms, metrics and targets at the end of this section 1.6.

1

MD&A Overview

Since our founding in 1880, Bell has been enabling Canadians to connect with each other and the world. Our approach to corporate responsibility
is to manage the company in ways that nurture the social and economic prosperity of our communities while safeguarding the environment.

Corporate responsibility underpins our six strategic imperatives
Corporate responsibility is a fundamental element of each of the six
strategic imperatives that inform BCE’s policies, decisions and actions.
As one of Canada’s largest companies, we are driven to continually
improve our impact and our contribution to society with our network
deployments, investments in mental health initiatives, environmental
sustainability and an engaged workplace. This approach also supports
our purpose to advance how Canadians connect with each other and
the world.
Our corporate responsibility approach is informed by a set of guiding
principles that support our corporate strategy and policies throughout
the organization. Through our own internal processes along with
stakeholder feedback, we have prioritized, and set clear objectives to
address ESG issues and opportunities, seeking to enhance sustainability
across BCE. We constantly measure and report on our progress. Through
these actions, we strive to drive environmental leadership, achieve a
diverse and inclusive workplace, lead data governance, and protect
and build stronger, healthier communities.
The Board has established clear oversight of our corporate responsibility
programs and our approach to ESG practices with primary accountability
at the committee level. The Governance Committee is responsible
for oversight of our corporate purpose and our ESG strategy and
disclosure. This includes the integration of ESG within our company
strategy and monitoring the implementation of ESG programs, goals
and key initiatives. Moreover, it is responsible for oversight and related
disclosure of climate-related risks, and for our governance practices
and policies, including those concerning business conduct and ethics.

86

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

In addition, the Risk and Pension Fund Committee oversees risks that
could impact our business, such as safety and security, business
continuity and ESG risks, while the Audit Committee monitors significant
ESG issues and approves our risks and assumptions disclosures. The
Compensation Committee has oversight of human resource issues
and tracks corporate performance against our ESG targets. Since
2020, the Compensation Committee has formally added ESG targets
to the corporate performance metrics within the measures of the
company’s annual short-term incentive compensation program, the
Annual Incentive Plan (AIP). In 2022, to reflect how ESG is embedded
into the overall strategy of the business, ESG-related metrics were
embedded throughout our strategic imperatives score and represent,
in aggregate, at least 30% of the total strategic imperatives score. The
strategic imperative score represents 40% weighting of the Corporate
Performance Index within the AIP.
Since 1993, BCE had been publishing a Corporate Responsibility Report
detailing our performance in managing ESG issues. In 2022, for the first
time, we presented both our financial and non-financial performance
in an Integrated annual report following the principles of the <IR>
Framework now part of the International Financial Reporting Standards.
We believe this approach provides a useful basis for disclosing how we
seek to create sustained value for our stakeholders over time. An integral
element of the <IR> Framework are the six pillars, called “capitals” (our
networks, our customers and relationships, our products and services,
our environment, our people and our financial resources). We call them
capitals because they are inputs to value creation.

Our networks
Our
networks
Our networks and services are fundamental to the communities we serve,
the nation’s economy and Canadian society as a whole. Our networks are
integral to delivering our wireless, wireline, and broadcasting services.
We work closely with governments, regulators and our customers to
maximize these societal benefits.

Key metrics

Additionally, privacy and information security present both potentially
significant risks and opportunities for any business operating in the digital
economy. They are the subject of an expanding range of obligations,
including under new privacy and data protection laws being enacted
in Canada and around the world. Our customers, team members and
investors increasingly expect us to demonstrate that we collect data
appropriately, use it for purposes that advance their interests, and
keep it secure.

70%

Advanced communications networks provide access to a broad
spectrum of everyday activities for all Canadians. Today, Bell’s network
technologies are a key part of Canada’s 21st century infrastructure.
Our networks provide an ever-increasing number of consumers and
businesses of all sizes with greater capabilities and new opportunities
to connect, build, and grow, while bridging the digital divide.

our activities and outcomes
Bell investments are delivering benefits directly to our customers,
from providing more consumers with better access to family and
friends, remote learning and entertainment to enabling businesses
and communities to operate more efficiently and grow in the digital
economy. At the same time, by continuing to close the digital divide
that separate communities, we are also supporting growth among
suppliers and partners and helping build and drive innovation across
the Canadian digital ecosystem.
In 2023, Bell’s capital expenditures were $4.6 billion as we continued to
accelerate fibre deployments directly to homes and businesses and
5G wireless connectivity throughout our footprint. As a direct result of
these investments, Bell’s pure fibre Internet was made available to an
additional 633,000 homes and businesses by the end of 2023.
Bell wireless and network technologies are a key part of Canada’s
21st century infrastructure. Bell’s LTE wireless network reached 99% of
Canadians by 2020. Since then we have launched and expanded our
5G network in urban and rural markets, reaching 86% of all Canadians
by the end of 2023.
Investing in network security, capacity and resiliency has helped Bell
achieve 99.9952% network reliability in 2023. Our investments provide
core network architecture, diversity and redundancy – including multiple
transport routes – which minimize the risk of major service disruptions.
We also proactively provide notifications to keep customers informed
if services are disrupted.

82%

Number of additional
pure fibre locations built

86%

854,000
633,000
MD&A Overview

611,000

21

22

23

21

22

23

1

How digital access helps create value

5G network coverage
at December 31

Bell’s network reliability (1)
99.9900%

Target
22

99.9955%

23

99.9952%

0

99.9

100

How data governance helps create value

We recognize that to achieve our purpose of advancing how Canadians
connect with each other and the world, we must maintain the social
licence from our customers and all Canadians to collect and use data
in our operations. A strong and consistently applied approach to data
governance is critical to maintaining that social licence by focusing
on respecting the privacy of our customers’ data and protecting such
data against information security threats. Conversely, failure to meet
customer expectations regarding the appropriate use and protection
of their data can have negative reputational, business and financial
consequences for our company.

our activities and outcomes
Our approach to data governance encompasses the protection and
appropriate use of data across their life cycle, and we are incorporating
data governance proactively as a core consideration in all our business
initiatives and technology decisions. We have a data governance policy
which covers privacy, information security, data access management
and records management. All employees are trained on data governance,
as part of our mandatory biannual code of business conduct training. In
2023, Bell continued to make significant investments in people, processes
and technology in order to seek to protect confidential information
from evolving cybersecurity threats.

Key metric
Number of unresolved well-founded
privacy complaints (2) from the Office of
the Privacy Commissioner of Canada

2021

2022

2023

–

–

–

(1) Bell’s network reliability refers to our high-speed Fibre-to-the home (FTTH) Internet connection. 2022 data have been restated to reflect a change in methodology. In 2022, the metric was
based on the entire Internet network (FTTH and N-FTTH).
(2) A complaint is considered well-founded if the Information Commissioner concluded that one or more of the allegations in the complaint has merit.

87

How information security governance
helps create value

1

MD&A Overview

Cybersecurity threats give rise to new and emerging standards and
regulations. We need to be able to identify and address information
security risks in a timely manner in order to be in a better position to
protect our market share and reputation, and these efforts align with
our strategic imperative to champion customer experience, while at the
same time reducing exposure to cyberattacks. Avoiding data breaches
can also limit the increase in expenses associated with remediation
efforts and legal exposures, aligning with our strategic imperative to
operate with agility and cost efficiency.

our activities and outcomes
We are focused on maintaining the trust that our customers have in us to
protect their data. To do this, we are implementing prevention, detection,
and response programs related to security threats. In addition, we are
helping define industry security and risk management practices, and
we are training our team members on data protection.
In 2023, we have aligned our Information Security program at 100% of
the ISO/IEC 27001 standard. Starting in 2021, we launched our Be Cyber
Savvy information security training program. This training program

includes onboarding to our specialized Cyber Awareness platform,
the conducting of monthly phishing simulations and the completion
of four baseline courses. Team members must complete these four
courses within 12 months of being onboarded to the program. This
year, 95% of onboarded team members completed baseline training
by the end of 2023. As we move forward, we believe a combination of
training, clear messaging, and positive reinforcement when reporting
a phishing attempt, should lead to year-over-year phishing report
rate improvement.This year, we observed a 142% increase in reported
phishing simulations by trained employees.

Key metric
Reported phish simulation between our fully trained
employees and non-trained employees on our Be Cyber
Savvy information security training
22
Non-trained
23

+142% more reporting

Fully trained

Our customers and relationships
Our customers
and relationships
Since 2010, the Bell Let’s Talk mental health initiative has raised
awareness and action for Canadian mental health, with a focus on
helping reduce the stigma around mental illness, improving access
to care, supporting world-class research and leading by example in
workplace mental health. Over the last 14 years, Canadians have taken
action to create real change by engaging in the world’s largest mental
health conversation, to help create a Canada where everyone can get
the culturally-appropriate mental health support they need. By 2025,
Bell expects to reach its total current commitment of $155 million for
Canadian mental health supports and services.

How taking action on mental health
helps create value

• Since the launch in 2020, the Bell Let’s Talk Diversity Fund provided
49 grants totalling $5.45 million, including 10 new grants announced
in January 2024.

• The Bell Let’s Talk Community Fund has provided over 1,100 grants

and invested over $20.5 million, including 115 new grants announced
in October 2023.

• In 2023, The Bell True Patriot Love Fund awarded a total of $350,000 to

10 organizations making a meaningful difference in the military
veteran community.

• Also in 2023, Bell Let’s Talk announced a $1 million gift to the IWK

Health Foundation in Halifax, the Maritime’s leading children’s health
care and research centre.

Our products and services help communities thrive, and we believe the
way we invest – our time, our money and our passion – has a positive
impact on the communities we serve. Communities also benefit from
the engagement of our team members as they support the causes they
value deeply. Bell is taking a leading role in helping address the mental
health crisis in Canada with the Bell Let’s Talk mental health initiative.
The program encourages Canadians to take action and achieve real
change in their mental health.

On Bell Let’s Talk Day 2024, communities and organizations across
Canada showed their support for mental health by raising the Bell Let’s
Talk flag at city and town halls, military bases, schools and other locations.
Students at Canadian elementary and high schools, universities, colleges
and cégeps across the country also engaged in a variety of initiatives
in their learning environments to promote student mental health.

our activities and outcomes

Key metric

Bell Let’s Talk is active year round providing funding through the Bell
Let’s Talk Community Fund, Diversity Fund, Post-Secondary Fund and
Bell True Patriot Love Fund. Bell Let’s Talk has partnered with more than
1,500 organizations including hospitals, universities, local community
service providers and other care and research organizations. This
collaboration has enabled these organizations to improve access to
mental health supports and services in communities nationwide.

In 2023, Bell made a fundamental shift in the Bell Let’s Talk Day campaign
by highlighting the mental health crisis Canadians are facing in very real
and personal ways, and issued a collective call to action and change.
Bell Let’s Talk Day 2024 continued to put a spotlight on mental health
organizations across the country that are providing support and services
for Canadians experiencing mental health issues – organizations that Bell
Let’s Talk is proud to support. Bell expects to reach its current commitment
of $155 million for Canadian mental health programs by 2025.

• In January 2024, the Bell Let’s Talk Post-Secondary Fund awarded
$1 million to 11 Canadian colleges, universities, and cégeps to support
initiatives that align with the National Standard of Canada for Mental

88

Health and Well-Being for Post-Secondary Students or the Québec
Action Plan on Student Mental Health for Higher Education.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Our products and services
Our products
and services

Bell technologies and services can help our customers reduce energy
needs, minimize carbon footprints and enhance productivity. Our
solutions help businesses embrace new ways to communicate,
collaborate, ensure business continuity and be able to maintain services
in the event of emergencies and extreme incidents.

our activities and outcomes
Our solutions include:

• virtualization and cloud computing which encourage optimal use of

space, power and cooling resources by consolidating servers and
storage and improve business continuity through redundancies in
our network

• IoT services which can help optimize asset and fleet management
and are effective for smart buildings, smart cities, smart operations
and smart fieldwork applications. Electronic controls coupled with
our communications networks can help communities adapt to rising
mean temperatures and/or events such as extended heat waves.

• hybrid workforce solutions and teleworking which help ensure business

Businessas-usual
scenario

Physical meeting in one room between 2 or more participants,
including the transportation to the meeting location

Bell’s
solution

Virtual meeting through a cloud-hosted platform with
integrated video and audio conferencing, online presentations,
shared applications and group document editing. Users
can share their entire or part of their desktop, or a specific
application with a small group of people.

Carbon
abatement

GHG emissions avoided from business travel for a meeting
due to the use of Bell’s web conferencing solution

The calculation method of the carbon abatement ratio is based on existing
methodologies developed in the Information and Communications
Technology (ICT) sector. The calculation, as shown below, is based on
assumptions that are dependent on customers’ behaviour over which
Bell has no control.
Carbon
abatement
ratio

=

GHG emissions
(business as usual case)

emissions
– (usingGHG
Bell’s solutions case)

Bell’s total operational GHG emissions (scope 1 & 2)

continuity, as evidenced during the COVID-19 pandemic

Key metric

• dematerialization, the reduction of the quantities of materials needed

GHG emissions estimated to have been avoided by our
customers through the use of Bell’s products and services

to serve an economic function, which substitutes technology (e.g.,
online banking apps) for travel (e.g., commuting to the bank)

At Bell, we believe it is important to understand the net carbon abatement
impact of our solutions. To achieve this, we have worked with Groupe
AGECO, a third-party consultant with expertise in GHG emissions
quantification, to develop a methodology that uses a carbon abatement
ratio which estimates the carbon reduction capacity of our products
and services used by our customers. The carbon abatement ratio
represents the GHG emissions estimated to have been avoided by our
customers through the use of our technological solutions in comparison
to our own operational (scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions. To do so, GHG
emissions are estimated in a business-as-usual case where technology
is not used compared to the case where Bell’s products are used. The
avoided GHG emissions correspond to the difference between the
emissions estimated to have been generated in a business-as-usual
case compared to the case where Bell’s technological solutions are
used. The emissions generated by Bell in providing the solutions to

MD&A Overview

How our products and services contributing
to climate change mitigation and adaptation
helps create value

the customers are not deducted from the total carbon abatement of
solutions, but are included in our operational emissions. Only the benefits
resulting from technologies deployed to Bell’s clients are considered,
i.e., environmental benefits associated with solutions implemented
within Bell’s own operations are not included. An example of how the
calculations were made is provided below:

1

Our products and services provide value to Canadians by helping them
both mitigate climate change and adapt to its impacts. Our solutions
enable customers to reduce environmental impacts, improve health
and safety and better safeguard protected data from growing risks.

Number of times by which GHG emissions estimated to have been abated
by our customers through the use of Bell’s technologies exceeded scope 1
and 2 GHG emitted by Bell’s operations (1)
5.2

2.2

15

2.5

17

20

(1) GHG emitted by Bell’s operations refers to scope 1 emissions (direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Bell) and scope 2 emissions (indirect GHG emissions associated
with the consumption of purchased electricity, heating/cooling and steam required by Bell’s activities). The analyses were performed based on 2015, 2017 and 2020 data, respectively.

89

Our environment

1

MD&A Overview

Our
environment
We strive to minimize the negative environmental impacts of our
operations and to create positive impacts where possible. We also know
that our team members, our customers, and our investors expect this.
Taking care of the environment makes good business sense. If we fail to
take action to reduce our negative impacts on the environment, we risk
losing our valuable team members and customers to competitors, we
risk increased costs due to fines or remediation requirements, and we
risk losing investors, all of which could adversely impact our business.
We have been implementing and maintaining programs to reduce
the environmental impact of our operations for more than 30 years.
Our Environmental Policy, first issued in 1993, reflects our team
members’ values, as well as the expectations of customers, investors
and society that we regard environmental protection as an integral
part of doing business that needs to be managed systematically under
a continuous improvement process. We implemented an environmental
management system (EMS) to help with this continuous improvement,
which has been certified ISO 14001 (1) since 2009, making us the first
North American communications company to be so designated. We
have continuously maintained this certification since then. In addition,
Bell’s energy management system was certified ISO 50001 (2) in 2020,
also making us the first North American communications company to
be so designated (3).

How addressing climate change
helps create value

Climate change poses risks to our operating environment and our
ability to create value. To help mitigate these risks, we aim to reduce
our energy consumption and GHG emissions while continuing to adapt
to the impacts of climate change.

publicly report on our energy performance and GHG emissions as part
of our environmental and energy management systems. Since 2003,
we report on our climate change mitigation and adaptation efforts
through the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), a not-for­
profit organization that gathers information on climate-related risks
and opportunities from organizations worldwide. In 2023, we obtained
an A- score from the CDP, ranking us in the “Leadership Band” for the
eighth consecutive year, recognizing our leadership on climate action,
our alignment with current best practices and the transparency of
our climate-related disclosures. Furthermore, we disclose annually
on our risks and opportunities related to climate change following the
11 recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD). We are also engaged in reducing our GHG footprint
to contribute to the global effort in fighting climate change. We have
set the target to be carbon neutral for our operational GHG emissions
(scope 1 and 2 only) starting in 2025. For 2026 and 2030, we have set
science-based GHG emissions reduction and supplier engagement
targets that are consistent with the goals of the Paris Agreement. The
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) (4) has approved the three specific
targets set by BCE Inc. that cover all scopes.

Key metrics
Energy intensity

(Energy consumption (Megawatt
hours (MWh) equivalent) divided by
network usage (petabytes))
151
111

103

99

22

23

Operational (scope 1 and 2)
GHG emissions
(tonnes of CO2 e)

262,951

265,010

256,325

256,366

20

21

22

23

our activities and outcomes
We are taking action both to help fight climate change and adapt to its
consequences. We are adapting by taking action to seek to maintain our
resiliency in the face of climate change, and are helping our customers
do the same. To fight climate change, we are focused on reducing our
energy consumption and GHG emissions, while also helping customers
reduce theirs. Fostering innovation that helps reduce our carbon footprint
is part of our culture. On an annual basis, we calculate, monitor and

20

21

(1) Our ISO 14001 certification covers Bell Canada’s administrative oversight of the EMS associated with the development of policies and procedures for the delivery of services for business
sectors including landline, wireless, television, Internet services, connectivity, broadband services, data hosting and cloud computing.
(2) Our ISO 50001 certification covers Bell Canada’s energy management program at its national business locations associated with the activities of real estate management services, fleet
services, radio broadcasting and digital media services, landline, wireless, television, Internet services, connectivity, broadband services, data hosting and cloud computing, in addition to
related general administrative functions.
(3) Bell’s review in 2020 of publicly available information for North American communications and telecommunications companies indicated Bell was the first of its North American communications
and telecommunications competitors to receive ISO 14001 and 50001 certifications.
(4) The SBTi is a partnership between CDP, the United Nations Global Compact, World Resources Institute and the World Wide Fund for Nature driving ambitious climate action in the private
sector by enabling organizations to set science-based emissions reduction targets. The SBTi approved our targets in 2022, prior to the recalculation of our 2020 GHG emission base year.
The impact of this recalculation is an increase of our target to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 58% instead of 57% by 2030, from a 2020 base year. The recalculated
target has been submitted to the SBTi for approval on October 20, 2023.

90

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

our activities and outcomes
Bell has managed waste reduction, reuse and recycling programs
for more than 30 years. We have waste reduction goals and strong
monitoring processes in place that enable us to track and report on our
activities that generate waste. To manage the waste created from the
electronic devices we distribute to customers, we have implemented
effective and accessible e-waste collection programs for the recovery,
reuse, refurbishment and recycling of customer-facing devices, including
national take-back programs, drop boxes and mail-in instructions. To
measure the success of these programs, we had set a goal to collect
7 million used TV receivers, modems, mobile phones and Wi-Fi pods
between October 1, 2020 and September 30, 2023, which we’ve
exceeded in 2023 with the collection of 7,760,323 devices. At Bell, we
believe in leading by example, and so to continue to manage and reduce
the waste generated from our own operations, we have the target to
reach and maintain a 15% reduction of total waste sent to landfill by

Key metric
Cumulative recovery of used TV receivers, modems,
Wi-Fi pods (1) and mobile phones
19.7M
16.5M
14.2M

MD&A Overview

We are improving our circular economy model to focus on solutions
that detach growth from accelerating raw material consumption in
order to reduce the environmental impact of our operations. Waste
reduction is essential to our objective of improving our operational
efficiency and also aligns with the values and expectations of our team
members and customers.

2025, from a 2019 baseline year. We’ve exceeded this target in 2023
by diverting a total of 16% waste from landfill. Through setting waste
reduction targets, such as the ones listed above, we are striving to build
a resilient path to circularity. In 2024, we will work to set a new target,
while efforts will continue to further divert waste from landfill and keep
the numbers of electronic devices we recover as a key metric to monitor
our performance. We are also investing in research and development
for solutions where current technology does not provide responsible
waste diversion methods.

11.7M
9.6M

1

How circular economy helps create value

7.1M
4.7M
2.2M
16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

Our people
Our
people
To execute on our strategic imperatives, we rely on the engagement and
expertise of our team members. We focus on attracting, developing and
retaining the best talent, as well as creating a positive team member
experience to drive effectiveness, high performance and agility in our
evolving business environment. Through workplace wellness initiatives
and by celebrating diversity in the workplace, we reinforce our goal
of creating a safe and inclusive atmosphere for all team members.

How well-being helps create value

Bell team members bring our corporate purpose and strategic
imperatives to life every day. To support the Bell team, we strive for a
dynamic culture where all team members feel valued and respected
in a safe, supported environment. We offer inclusive benefits, ongoing
education and awareness programs and a range of progressive
initiatives to foster well-being and success. At Bell, we believe that
taking care of the well-being of our team members is essential to their
personal success and to our organization’s ongoing progress.

our activities and outcomes
To foster the well-being of our team members, we believe that engaging
our team members as well as nurturing an inclusive environment are
both essential. We are proud to be again ranked as one of Canada’s
Top Employers (2). Bell has also been recognized by Mediacorp as one
of Canada’s Top Employers for Young People, Top Family-Friendly
Employers, one of Canada’s Greenest Employers and one of Montréal’s
Top Employers (3) (4) (5) (6). We are focused on developing and retaining
the best talent in the country by providing a workplace that is positive,
professional and rewarding, all of which enable creativity and innovation.
We also continue to develop, implement and share mental health
practices in the workplace, and to broaden our approach to emphasize
total-health support. We educate team members through our training
programs and campaigns, support them through an extensive range of
mental health services, and support and adapt workplace policies and
practices to foster a psychologically safe workplace. Since 2010, over
90 metrics have been measured quarterly and assessed for trends

(1) Wi-Fi pods have been included in the scope starting in 2021.
(2) Bell was recognized as one of “Canada’s Top 100 Employers” in years 2016 to 2024 by Canada’s Top Employers, an editorial competition organized by Mediacorp Canada Inc., a publisher
of employment periodicals. Winners are evaluated and selected based on their industry leadership in offering exceptional workplaces for their employees. Employers are compared to
others in their field to determine which offers the most progressive and forward-thinking programs.
(3) Bell was recognized as one of “Canada’s Top Employers for Young People” in years 2018 to 2024 by Canada’s Top 100 Employers. Winners are evaluated and selected based on the programs
offered to attract and retain young employees, when compared to other employers in the same field.
(4) Bell was recognized as one of “Canada’s Top Family-Friendly Employers” in years 2020 to 2024 by Canada’s Top 100 Employers. Winners are evaluated and selected based on the programs
and initiatives offered to help employees balance work and family commitments, when compared to other employers in the same field.
(5) Bell was recognized as one of “Canada’s Greenest Employers” in years 2017 to 2023 by Canada’s Top 100 Employers. Winners are evaluated and selected based on the development of
sustainability initiatives and environmental leadership, when compared to other employers in the same field.
(6) Bell was recognized as one of “Montréal’s Top Employers” in years 2013 to 2024 by Canada’s Top Employers. Winners are evaluated and selected based on progressive and forward-thinking
programs offered in a variety of areas, when compared to other organizations in the same field.

91

and program insights to closely monitor the psychological health of
our workplace. Collecting qualitative and quantitative data is crucial
to ensuring that we are heading in the right direction and making any
required adjustments to our mental health programs.

Key metrics
People leaders who
completed mandatory
base training on
mental health
91%

76%

76%

73%

Bell continues to take meaningful actions to address the impacts of
systemic racism experienced by Black, Indigenous and Persons of Colour
(BIPOC). Our goal is to reach at least 25% BIPOC representation in our
senior management team by 2025. As of the end of 2023, we were
at 23%. We exceeded our target of 40% BIPOC representation in our
new graduate and intern hires, achieving 66% representation in 2023.
Ongoing partnerships with the Onyx Initiative and the Black Professionals
in Tech Network are helping drive the recruitment of Black college and
university students and promote Black talent in technology. Bell Media
continues to promote greater diversity in Canadian media with the
HireBIPOC website and the Bell Media Content Diversity Task Force in
partnership with BIPOC TV & Film.

21

22

23

Looking ahead, we plan to continue building momentum for our DEIB
strategy based on concrete objective-setting and the integration of
inclusive leadership practices.

94%

1

MD&A Overview

92%

Overall team member
engagement score (1)

21

22

23

women within executive leadership positions and serving on Canadian
corporate boards to at least 30%. In 2022 and 2023, Bell exceeded that
target with 32% women in executive positions but did not achieve Bell’s
goal of at least 35% gender diverse executives (vice president level and
above) by the end of 2023 and in July 2023, we extended our target
date to achieve this goal to the end of 2025.

How fostering diversity, equity, inclusion
and belonging helps create value

At Bell, we are proud of our focus on fostering a diverse, inclusive,
equitable and accessible workplace where all team members feel valued,
respected and supported. We are dedicated to building a workforce
that reflects the diversity of the communities we serve, where every
team member has the opportunity to reach their full potential. The
integration of DEIB programs within Bell fosters the innovation and
creativity of our team members.

our activities and outcomes
Our DEIB strategy is supported by a governance framework that
includes the Diversity Leadership Council with senior leaders from every
business unit, business unit committees and employee-led networks,
including Black Professionals at Bell, Pride at Bell, Diversability at Bell
and Women at Bell.
In line with our objective of improving gender diversity, our current
gender diversity target for the Board is a minimum of 35% gender
diverse directors, defined as directors who identify as women and
directors who identify with a gender other than a man or a woman.
This target was met from its adoption, in 2021, until the appointment
of Johan Wibergh to the Board on November 1, 2023, following which
(and as of December 31, 2023) 33% of all directors identified as women.
With the increase in the number of directors upon his appointment, the
Board is temporarily below the target to allow for an orderly transition
ahead of the retirements of David F. Denison and Robert C. Simmonds at
the end of the 2024 Annual General Shareholder Meeting (the Meeting)
in May. The target will be met again if all director nominees are elected
at the Meeting, after which directors identifying as women will represent
38% of all directors. In step with our overarching corporate objective to
improve gender diversity across levels, including in our senior leadership,
Bell was a signatory to the Catalyst Accord 2022 (2) and is currently a
member of the 30% Club, (3) which aim to increase the proportion of

Key metrics
Gender diverse (4)
representation in
executive positions

(vice-president level and above)

33%

32%

32%

21

22

23

BIPOC
representation
in Bell senior
management

Gender diverse (4)
representation
among directors
on the BCE Board

36%

36%

21

22

33%

23

BIPOC
representation
among new graduates
and interns
66%
52%
41%

20%

21

23%

23%

22

23

21

22

23

(1) This metric is calculated as the average score obtained in the annual Bell team member satisfaction survey. The Team Member Engagement score is based on five specific questions and
the percentage of employees who responded favourably (Strongly agree or Agree) to these questions out of the total number of employees who responded to the survey.
(2) The Catalyst Accord 2022 calls on Canadian boards and CEOs to pledge to accelerate the advancement of women in business through these actions: Increase the average percentage of
women on boards and women in executive positions in corporate Canada to 30% or greater by 2022.
(3) Recognizing Canada’s distinct corporate governance framework, the aim of the 30% Club Canada is to include both board Chairs and CEOs to achieve better gender balance at board
level, as well as at senior management levels.
(4) Gender diverse is defined as a person who identifies as a woman or with a gender other than a man or a woman.

92

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Our financial resources
Our financial
resources
The financial resources of the company are addressed throughout this MD&A. In addition, in 2022 and 2023, we added sustainability-linked
pricing to our $3.5 billion committed credit facilities, to our securitization program and to certain derivatives, introducing price adjustments
based on our performance of certain sustainability performance targets.

Our
environment
Our GHG emissions reduction and supplier engagement targets are
based on a number of assumptions including, without limitation, the
following principal assumptions:

DEIB targets
Our
people
Our DEIB targets are based on a number of assumptions including,
without limitation, the following principal assumptions:

• Ability to leverage DEIB partnerships and recruitment agencies to help
identify qualified diverse talent for vacant positions

• Our ability to purchase a significant amount of high-quality credible

• Sufficient diverse labour market availability
• Implementation of corporate and business initiatives to increase

• The carbon offset resulting from the purchase of carbon credits will

• Propensity of existing employees and job-seekers to self-identify to

carbon credits and/or renewable energy certificates (RECs) to offset
or reduce, as applicable, our GHG emissions
be permanent and will not be reversed, in whole or in part, prior to
the date of our targets

1

GHG emissions reduction and supplier
engagement targets

MD&A Overview

Assumptions

awareness, education and engagement in support of our DEIB targets
enable a diverse workforce representation

• The successful and timely implementation of various corporate and

business initiatives to reduce our electricity and fuel consumption,
as well as reduce other direct and indirect GHG emissions enablers

• No new corporate initiatives, business acquisitions, business divestitures
or technologies that would materially change our anticipated levels
of GHG emissions

• No negative impact on the calculation of our GHG emissions from
refinements in or modifications to international standards or the
methodology we use for the calculation of such GHG emissions

• No required changes to our science-based targets pursuant to the SBTi

methodology that would make the achievement of our science-based
targets, as updated from time to time, more onerous or unachievable
in light of business requirements

• Sufficient supplier engagement and collaboration in setting their own

science-based targets, no significant change in the allocation of our
spend by supplier and sufficient engagement and collaboration from
the other participants across our whole value chain in reducing their
own GHG emissions

93

Explanation of certain climate-related terms, metrics and targets
Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions

1

MD&A Overview

Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are
controlled by Bell. Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions
associated with the consumption of purchased electricity, heating/
cooling and steam required by Bell’s activities. Scope 1 and 2 emissions
are sometimes collectively referred to in this MD&A as “operational
emissions”. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included
in scope 2) that occur in our value chain, including both upstream and
downstream emissions.
By definition, GHG emissions from scope 3 (upstream and downstream
indirect emissions) occur from sources owned or controlled by other
entities in Bell’s value chain (such as our suppliers, employees and
customers). As a result, measuring scope 3 emissions is more complex
than measuring scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, for which we are able to
obtain primary data (such as litres of fuel consumed within our vehicle
fleet and kilowatt-hours of electricity consumed within our buildings).
For scope 3 categories for which primary data is not available, we have
to rely on secondary data (such as financial data and industry-average
data from published databases). These data collection challenges
contribute to uncertainty in scope 3 emissions measurement.

Carbon neutrality

We will measure our carbon neutrality performance based on our
operational GHG emissions (scope 1 and scope 2 emissions in tonnes
of CO2e) minus GHG emissions offset by carbon credits purchased (in
tonnes of CO2e). To be carbon neutral, the total must be equal to zero
or lower. In order to achieve our target of carbon neutral operations

starting in 2025, we expect that we will need to purchase a significant
amount of carbon credits to offset our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
that will not have been avoided by internal initiatives, in addition to RECs
to reduce our scope 2 emissions. In 2023, our scope 1 and 2 emissions
represented 12% of our total carbon footprint. Our target for carbon
neutral operations excludes our scope 3 emissions that represented
88% of our carbon footprint in 2023.

Science-based targets

Science-based targets provide a clearly-defined pathway for companies
to reduce GHG emissions, aiming to prevent the worst impacts of climate
change. Targets are considered ‘science-based’ if they are in line with
what the latest climate science deems necessary to meet the goals of the
Paris Agreement – limiting global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial
levels. The SBTi brings together a team of experts to provide companies
with independent assessment and validation of targets.

Net zero target

BCE’s carbon neutrality and science-based targets are different than,
and independent of, the SBTi’s net zero target. Net zero refers to the
state in which an organization reduces GHG emissions in its entire
value chain (i.e., scopes 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions) to as close to zero as
possible (with a minimum reduction of at least 90%) and neutralizes (1)
any remaining emissions such that its net global GHG emissions balance
to zero. At the moment, BCE does not have a net zero target.

(1) According to SBTi, neutralize means that carbon is removed from the atmosphere and permanently stored in geological, terrestrial, or ocean reservoirs, or in products.

94

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

2 Strategic imperatives
Our success is built on the BCE team’s dedicated execution of the six strategic imperatives
that support our purpose to advance how Canadians connect with each other and the world.

Continuing to enhance our key competitive advantage
with a focus on delivering leading broadband fibre and
wireless networks in locations large and small.

2023 progress
• Expanded our FTTP direct fibre footprint to an additional 633,000 homes

and businesses. FTTP enables multi-gigabit symmetrical download and
upload Internet speeds, offering a performance and quality advantage
over cable networks. At the end of 2023, approximately 6.5 million
locations in Bell’s footprint had access to multi-gigabit symmetrical
speeds of 3 Gbps.

• Secured the acquisition of 939 licences for 1.77 billion MHz-Pop of

3800 MHz spectrum for $518 million following ISED’s wireless spectrum
auction, enabling Bell to continue bringing fast and reliable 5G+ wireless
service to more people and businesses across Canada. Combined with
our existing 3500 MHz holdings, Bell will have access to an industryleading 3.5 billion MHz-Pop of 5G+ spectrum nationwide, acquired at a
total cost of $2.78 billion, the lowest among national wireless carriers.

• Expanded our 5G wireless network to reach 86% of Canada’s population
• Expanded 5G+ service coverage, leveraging 3500 MHz spectrum, to
reach 51% of Canada’s population

• Launched mobile service in Toronto’s TTC subway tunnels and stations
for Bell, Virgin Plus and Lucky Mobile customers

• Continued to work closely with governments on projects to bring

broadband access to remote and other hard to serve areas, including
in rural Ontario, and in Newfoundland and Labrador with the Universal
Broadband Fund

• Announced new wavelength data routes with speeds up to 400 gigabits

2

2.1 Build the best networks

MD&A Strategic imperatives

This section contains forward-looking statements, including relating to our network deployment plans, the cost savings expected to result
from workforce reductions, our ESG objectives, and our 2024 objectives, plans and strategic priorities. Refer to the section Caution regarding
forward-looking statements at the beginning of this MD&A.

that will enable triple redundancy between Secaucus, NJ, Toronto and
Montréal, expected to be available in the first half of 2024, in partnership
with FirstLight Fiber, an Albany, New York-based provider of fibre­
optic data, Internet, data centre, cloud, unified communications, and
managed services to enterprise and carrier customers throughout
the Northeast and mid-Atlantic

2024 focus
• Further deployment of direct fibre to more homes and businesses
within our wireline footprint, but at a slower pace than during any
of 2020 to 2023. Bell’s near-term fibre build target is to reach 8.3 million
locations with fibre by the end of 2025.

• Ongoing expansion and deployment of 5G and 5G+ wireless networks,
offering competitive coverage and quality

• Bell 5G was ranked Canada’s fastest and best 5G network by Global
Wireless Solutions (GWS) for the third consecutive year in its 2023
nationwide assessment of 5G networks (1). New this year, GWS’s testing
included 3500 MHz network wireless spectrum and determined Bell’s
network (5G+) performance to be the fastest and best in the country.

2.2 Drive growth with innovative services
Leveraging our leading network technologies to
provide truly differentiated communications services
to Canadians and drive revenue growth.

2023 progress
• Added 411,189 total net postpaid and prepaid mobile phone subscribers,
bringing Bell’s mobile phone customer base to 10,287,046 at
December 31, 2023, up 3.4% over 2022

• Entered into a multi-year exclusive agreement with Staples Canada

to sell Bell, Virgin Plus and Lucky Mobile wireless and wireline
services through Staples stores across Canada for consumers
and small businesses. In addition, Bell and Staples are partnering
to sell Bell wireless and wireline services direct to medium-sized
businesses through the Staples Professional sales team, backed by
Bell’s communications expertise.

• Entered into a multi-year strategic agreement with Air Canada,

which includes premier sponsorship of its in-flight Wi-Fi, free
in-flight messaging for Aeroplan members and the distribution of
complimentary SIM cards on board to enable newcomers and visitors
arriving in Canada to activate a wireless SIM while still in the air

• Virgin Plus unveiled a fresh new look with more affordable service

offerings for everyone, including those new to Canada, including
unlimited nationwide rate plans and access to 5G, plus updated
Member benefits

• Built on our position as the leading Internet service provider (ISP) in
Canada with a retail high-speed Internet subscriber base of 4,473,429
at December 31, 2023, up 5.0% over 2022

(1) Based on a third party score (Global Wireless Solutions OneScore) calculated using Bell wireless 5G network testing in Canada against other national wireless networks from April 12, 2023
to October 27, 2023.

95

• Bell pure fibre was ranked Canada’s fastest Internet and Wi-Fi in

and supply chain, Bell will wind down The Source head office and
back office operations, as well as close 107 The Source stores.

• Named the Best Major & All Around ISP in Canada in PCMag’s Best

• In February 2024, Bell announced a partnership with SentinelOne,
a global leader in AI-powered security, to provide extensive data
protection services for Bell’s enterprise customers

• Recognized as BrandSpark’s Most Trusted ISP 2024 (3)
• Launched Gigabit Fibe 3.0 service in Manitoba with symmetrical

• In February 2024, Bell announced a collaboration with Microsoft to
bring new hybrid work solutions to Canadian enterprises with the
launch of Bell Operator Connect, pairing Bell’s high-quality voice
network and Microsoft Teams. Bell is also rolling out Microsoft 365
within its own enterprise IT environment.

Ookla’s Q1-Q2 2023 and Q3-Q4 2023 Speedtest Awards reports (1)

ISPs 2023 Canada report, based on Internet speed as well as price,
coverage and customer satisfaction (2)

download and upload speeds of 3 Gbps

2

MD&A Strategic imperatives

• Acquired FX Innovation, a Montréal-based provider of cloud-focused

managed and professional services and workflow automation
solutions for business clients. The acquisition enables the delivery
of leading-edge technology solutions for Canadian businesses and
supports Bell’s position as a technology services leader.

• Entered into a collaboration with ServiceNow, a digital workflow

company, to launch Service Bridge capabilities on the ServiceNow
platform, leveraging FX Innovation’s deep industry expertise to elevate
the end-to-end experience for Bell customers with customized solutions
and automation capabilities

• Partnered with Palo Alto Networks to better support Canadian

businesses managing their cloud security with the launch of two new
cloud-native application protection platform (CNAPP) solutions, Cloud
Security Posture Assessment and Cloud Security Posture Protection

2024 focus
• Leverage innovative new partnerships and collaborations to deliver
for our customers

• In January 2024, Bell entered into a strategic partnership with Best
Buy Canada to operate 165 The Source consumer electronics retail
stores in Canada, which will be rebranded as Best Buy Express and
offer the latest in consumer electronics from Best Buy along with
exclusive telecommunications services from Bell. In February 2024,
Bell announced that with the strengths of Best Buy’s buying power

• In February 2024, Bell announced a collaboration with Mila, a research
institute in AI, to apply deep learning neural network algorithms
to Bell’s systems and data to improve business performance and
customer experience and accelerate AI innovations using cloud
computing

• Increase our market share of national operators’ wireless mobile
phone net additions

• Introduction of more 5G and 5G+ devices and services
• Increased adoption of unlimited data plans and device financing plans
• Accelerated business customer adoption of advanced 5G and IoT
solutions

• Continued growth in retail Internet subscribers
• Enhance Internet product superiority through new service offerings and

hardware to provide an enhanced customer experience in the home

• Cross sell to customers who do not have all their telecommunication
services with Bell

• Continued diversification of Bell’s distribution strategy with a focus
on expanding DTC and online transactions

• Continue to deliver network-centric managed and professional services
solutions to large and medium-sized businesses that increase the
value of connectivity services

2.3 Deliver the most compelling content
Taking a unified approach across our media and
distribution assets to deliver the content Canadians
want the most.

• Forged a licensing and distribution pact with FOX Entertainment Global

2023 progress
• Increased our IPTV subscriber base by 4.1% to 2,070,342 at December 31,

• TSN acquired exclusive media rights to PGA Tour Live, featuring more

2023

• Crave expanded its DTC subscription offering with the launch of

ad-supported plans, giving customers a range of options to access
Crave’s ever-growing lineup of award-winning premium content

• 2023 was the most watched year in Crave’s streaming history
• Maintained CTV’s #1 ranking as the most-watched TV network in
Canada for the 22nd year in a row

• Extended a long-term and exclusive licensing agreement with Warner

Bros. Discovery that includes HBO and Max Originals, new cable and
library television series, and pay and post-pay window rights for
Warner Bros. films and library films

to support Canadian original productions for all Bell Media platforms,
including CTV and Crave, and in the U.S. for FOX
than 4,300 hours of live coverage from PGA Tour events throughout
the season

• Launched TSN+, a DTC streaming product available on TSN.ca and the

TSN app that provides access to marquee live games and events that
are incremental to the sports content delivered across TSN’s platforms

• Launched Addressable TV, an innovation that delivers tailored ads

to TV audiences, across Bell Media’s premium linear and video on
demand (VOD) content on CTV, CTV2, and Noovo, as well as a selection
of English and French specialty channels

• Launched Addressable Audio, an innovative new format that

dynamically inserts digital audio ads into live linear programming, and
on-demand content on iHeartRadio.ca and the iHeartRadio Canada app

• Implemented upgrades to Bell Media’s proprietary Strategic Audience

Management (SAM) tool, including faster optimization, better proposals,
expanded user capabilities, and automation

(1) Based on analysis by Ookla of Speedtest Intelligence data Fixed and Wi-Fi nationally aggregated Speed Score results for Q1–Q2 and Q3–Q4 2023. Ookla trademarks used under license
and reprinted with permission.
(2) PCMag Best ISPs 2023: Canada, based on speed, price, coverage and customer satisfaction comparing major and overall Canadian ISPs from June 1, 2022 to June 27, 2023.
(3) BrandSpark is a research and consulting firm. Winners were determined by a national survey of 15, 878 Canadian shoppers who gave their top-of-mind, unaided answers as to which
brands they trust most and why in categories they have recently shopped.

96

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

• In January 2024, Bell launched the next generation Fibe TV service
in Atlantic Canada, with capabilities and features including live TV,
on-demand shows and movies, access to the Google Play app
catalogue, voice remote powered by Google Assistant, universal
search, Cloud PVR and unlimited simultaneous streams with the
Fibe TV app

• Reinforce industry leadership in conventional TV, specialty TV, pay TV,
streaming and sports services

• Continued scaling of Crave through optimized content offering, user
experience improvements and expanded distribution

digital platforms such as Crave, Noovo.ca and iHeartRadio, to better
serve our French-language customers through a personalized digital
experience

• Grow advertising revenue and maximize market share
• Continued scaling of our SAM TV and demand-side platform (DSP)

buying platforms, Bell Media’s advertising buying optimization platforms
which give customers the ability to plan, activate and measure
marketing campaigns using Bell’s premium first-party data and expand
personalization of ad content to TV and digital radio

• Advance our digital-first media strategy including growing digital
revenues (1) and DTC subscribers

• Optimize unique partnerships and strategic content investments to
monetize content rights and Bell Media properties across all platforms

• In February 2024, Bell Media reached an agreement with Amazon to
make Crave available on Prime Video Channels in Canada

2.4 Champion customer experience
Making it easier for customers to do business
with Bell at every step, from sales to installation,
to ongoing support.

• Leveraged our online and social media platforms to do a better

2023 progress
• Led national telecom service providers in reducing our share of

• Increased our share of digital online service transactions through

consumer complaints, according to the 2022–2023 Annual Report
from the Commission for Complaints for Telecom-television Services
(CCTS). Bell reduced its share of total industry complaints for an eighth
consecutive year, decreasing its share of complaints by 6% over the
previous year.

• Won a Webby award for the MyBell app (2), recognized by both a panel

of expert judges and the voting public. The app was judged among
14,000 applicants across criteria including user experience, design,
innovation and overall usability.

• Reached one million digital repair sessions on our self-serve Virtual

Repair tool, and enhanced the tool with new features such as Wi-Fi
check-up to help customers simplify the repair process

MD&A Strategic imperatives

innovation to provide an enhanced customer experience in the home

• Continued support of original French programming with a focus on

2

2024 focus
• Continued growth in IPTV subscribers
• Enhance TV product superiority through new service offerings and

job keeping customers informed through social media and outage
notifications accessible online through the MyBell app
self-serve tools to nearly 70% of all digital transactions

• Leveraged AI to automate the service experience either through our
agents or our digital platforms

2024 focus
• Improve customer experience with continued scaling of digital sales
capabilities and functionality

• Further improve and expand self-installation capabilities
• Further improve customer satisfaction scores
• Further reduce the total number of customer calls to our call centres
as well as the number of truck rolls

• Continue to invest in AI and machine learning to resolve customer
issues faster

2.5 Operate with agility and cost efficiency
Underscoring our focus on operational
excellence and cost discipline throughout
every part of our business.

• Maintained stable BCE consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin (3)
• Maintained low average after-tax cost of Bell Canada’s publicly issued
debt securities of 3.0%

2023 progress
• Launched a multi-year operational transformation project to modernize

2024 focus
• Accelerate Bell’s transformation from a telco to a techco
• Continued focus on our cost structure
• Realize cost savings from:

• Undertook restructuring initiatives as a result of the unfavourable

• workforce restructuring initiative announced in February 2024,
our largest in nearly 30 years, that will result in the reduction of
our workforce by approximately 4,800 positions, or 9% of all BCE
employees in 2024, and is expected to yield in-year cost savings of
$150 million to $200 million, or $250 million on an annualized basis

our operations, increase productivity, build tech talent and materially
right-size our cost base, to support Bell’s evolution from a telco to
a techco
economic and regulatory environments

• Delivered productivity improvements and cost efficiencies resulting

from the expansion of Bell’s all-fibre network footprint and service
innovations enabled by new broadband technologies

• operating efficiencies enabled by our direct fibre footprint

(1) Digital revenues are comprised of advertising revenue from digital platforms including web sites, mobile apps, connected TV apps and OOH digital assets/platforms, as well as advertising
procured through Bell digital buying platforms and subscription revenue from direct-to-consumer services and VOD services.
(2) The Webby awards are presented annually by the International Academy of Digital Arts & Sciences that honour outstanding digital achievements.
(3) Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as adjusted EBITDA divided by operating revenues.

97

• changes in consumer behaviour and product innovation

• new call centre and digital investments

• digital adoption

• other improvements to the customer service experience

• product and service enhancements

• lower contracted rates from our suppliers

• expanding self-serve capabilities

• rationalization of real estate footprint

2

MD&A Strategic imperatives

2.6 Engage and invest in our people and create a sustainable future
Strengthening our inclusive workplace culture, recognizing
that Bell’s success requires a dynamic and engaged team
that is committed to the highest ESG standards.

• Recognized with a Clean50 Top Project Award for our halocarbon

2023 progress
• Named one of Canada’s Top Employers for Young People for the sixth

pricing that introduces a financing cost that varies based on Bell’s
performance of certain sustainability performance targets

consecutive year by Mediacorp (1)

• Named one of Canada’s Top Family-Friendly Employers for the fourth
consecutive year by Mediacorp (2)

• Named a Montréal Top Employer for the 11th consecutive year by

free, energy-efficient computer room cooling project (7)

• Amended our securitization program to add sustainability-linked
• Entered into our first Sustainability-Linked Derivatives, with a
pricing adjustment that increases the derivatives’ cost based on
Bell’s performance towards its science-based target to reduce its
operational GHG emissions

• Recognized with a special mention by the Workforce Disclosure

2024 focus
• Continue to support employees with enhanced pension, savings and

• Introduced a new virtual health care program to team members called

• Deliver new Bell U tech training for leaders to advance and build the

Mediacorp (3)

Initiative’s (WDI) 2023 Workforce Transparency Awards

Dialogue, making it easier to bring high-quality health care to our team
and their families when they need it, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week

• Launched a new Human Rights and Accommodation policy as part

of our ongoing objective to take action to promote our team’s human
rights and continue fostering an accessible, inclusive and equitable
workplace

• Released a new Accessibility Plan on BCE.ca, improving our ongoing
focus and support for all Canadians

• Continued to support our DEIB strategy through various initiatives,

benefits options that focus on flexibility, inclusion and wellness
company’s transformation culture

• Play an active role in engaging our team and the broader community
in diversity issues and deliver on DEIB objectives

• Continue to enhance our workplace programs for the mental health

and well-being of all Bell team members, by evolving existing programs
and focusing on prevention and protective psychological workplace
factors to proactively improve mental health

• Continue to implement our action plan to address climate change and
achieve carbon neutral operations starting in 2025

policies, training and multiple employee resource groups, including the
launch of a new Diversability at Bell employee group to help advance
inclusion and promote accessibility at Bell

• In January 2024, we were ranked the most sustainable commu­

• Ranked 1st most sustainable telecom globally and 51st overall in the

• Enhance our Cyber Savvy program for employees, further advancing

Corporate Knights Global 100 2024 ranking of the most sustainable
corporations in the world (4)

• Named to the Canada’s Best 50 Corporate Citizens list compiled by

nications company in the world in the Corporate Knights Global
100 2024 ranking (8)
their cyber security knowledge and awareness

• Continue to advance ESG initiatives and Bell for Better commitments

Corporate Knights, ranking 20th overall (5)

• Named one of Canada’s Greenest Employers for the seventh straight
year (6)

(1) Canada’s Top 100 Employers report is issued annually by Medicorp. Winners were evaluated and selected based on programs offered to attract and retain young employees, when
compared to other employers in the same field.
(2) Canada’s Top 100 Employers report is issued annually by Medicorp. Winners were evaluated and selected based on programs and initiatives offered to help employees balance work and
family commitments, when compared to other employers in the same field.
(3) Canada’s Top 100 Employers report is issued annually by Medicorp. Winners were evaluated and selected based on progressive and forward-thinking programs offered in a variety of
areas, when compared to other organizations in the same field.
(4) In January 2024, Corporate Knights, a sustainable-economy media and research company, ranked Bell #1 among telecom providers and #51 overall in its global 2024 ranking of the World’s
100 Most Sustainable Corporations. The ranking is based on an assessment of more than 6,000 public companies with revenue over US $1 billion. All companies are scored on applicable
metrics relative to their peers, with 50% of the weight assigned to sustainable revenue and sustainable investment.
(5) According to Corporate Knights Inc. The annual ranking was released on June 28, 2023 and is based on a set of 25 ESG indicators that compares Canadian companies with a gross revenue
of at least $1 billion.
(6) Canada’s Top 100 Employers report is issued annually by Medicorp. Winners were announced in April 2023 and were selected and evaluated in terms of: the unique environmental initiatives
and programs they have developed; the extent to which they have been successful in reducing the organization’s own environmental footprint; the degree to which their employees are
involved in these programs and whether they contribute any unique skills; and the extent to which these initiatives have become linked to the employer’s public identity, attracting new
employees and clients to the organization.
(7) The Clean50 Awards were founded by Delta Management Group, a sustainability, ESG and clean tech focused search firm in Canada, in June 2011 and have been awarded annually since.
Selection is primarily by Delta Management, with significant assistance by third- party advisors and based on detailed submissions by nominees. Clean50 Top Projects annually recognize
projects completed in the prior two years based on their innovation, ability to inform and inspire other Canadians.
(8) According to Corporate Knights Inc.’s global rankings released on January 17, 2024. BCE was ranked #51 overall and #1 in our sector and industry, in its 2024 ranking of the world’s 100 most
sustainable corporations. The ranking is based on an assessment of more than 6,000 public companies with revenue over US $1 billion. All companies are scored on applicable metrics
relative to their peers, with 50% of the weight assigned to sustainable revenue and sustainable investment.

98

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

3.1 BCE 2023 performance vs. guidance targets
Financial
measure

2023
target

2023
performance and results

Revenue growth

1% to 5%

2.1%

BCE revenues grew by 2.1% in 2023, compared to 2022, driven by higher product revenue of 9.4%,
and higher service revenue of 0.9%, attributable to growth from our Bell CTS segment, moderated
by a decline in our Bell Media segment.

Adjusted EBITDA
growth

2% to 5%

2.1%

BCE adjusted EBITDA grew by 2.1% in 2023, compared to 2022, reflecting a greater contribution
from our Bell CTS segment, partly offset by a decline in our Bell Media segment. The growth was
driven by higher revenues, moderated by increased operating costs.

Net earnings
growth

Not applicable

(20.5%)

In 2023, net earnings decreased by 20.5%, compared to 2022, due to higher other expense mainly
due to losses on our equity investments in associates and joint ventures which included a loss on
BCE’s share of an obligation to repurchase at fair value the minority interest in one of BCE’s joint
ventures, higher interest expense, higher depreciation and amortization and higher severance,
acquisition and other costs, partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower impairment of assets.

Capital intensity (1)

19% to 20%

18.6%

2023 capital expenditures of $4,581 million declined by 10.8% year over year, which corresponded
to a capital intensity ratio of 18.6%, down 2.6 pts over last year, driven by lower planned capital
spending in 2023 subsequent to accelerated network investments in 2022, as well as an unplanned
additional $105 million decrease in Q4 2023 as a result of the CRTC’s decision in November 2023 to
mandate wholesale access to Bell’s FTTP network.

Net earnings
per share (EPS)
growth

Not applicable

(23.5%)

Net earnings attributable to common shareholders in 2023 decreased by $640 million, or $0.70 per
common share, compared to 2022, due to higher other expense mainly due to losses on our equity
investments in associates and joint ventures which included a loss on BCE’s share of an obligation to
repurchase at fair value the minority interest in one of BCE’s joint ventures, higher interest expense,
higher depreciation and amortization and higher severance, acquisition and other costs, partly
offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower impairment of assets.

Adjusted net
earnings per share
(adjusted EPS) (2)
growth

(7%) to (3%)

(4.2%)

Excluding the impact of severance, acquisition and other costs, net mark-to-market gains (losses)
on derivatives used to economically hedge equity settled share-based compensation plans,
net equity gains (losses) on investments in associates and joint ventures, net gains (losses) on
investments, early debt redemption costs and impairment of assets, net of tax and non-controlling
interest (NCI), adjusted net earnings in 2023 was $2,926 million, or $3.21 per common share,
compared to $3,057 million, or $3.35 per common share, in 2022.

Cash flows from
operating activities
growth

Not applicable

(5.0%)

In 2023, BCE’s cash flows from operating activities of $7,946 million decreased by $419 million,
compared to 2022, mainly due to lower cash from working capital, in part from timing of supplier
payments, and higher interest paid, partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower contributions
to post-employment benefit plans.

Free cash flow
growth

2% to 10%

2.5%

Free cash flow of $3,144 million in 2023 increased by $77 million compared to 2022, mainly due
to lower capital expenditures, partly offset by lower cash flows from operating activities, excluding
cash from acquisition and other costs paid.

Annualized dividend
per common share

$3.87 per share

$3.87 per
share

Annualized dividend per BCE common share for 2023 increased by $0.19 cents, or 5.2%,
to $3.87 compared to $3.68 per share in 2022.

MD&A Performance targets, outlook, assumptions and risks

This section provides information pertaining to our performance against 2023 targets, our consolidated business outlook and operating
assumptions for 2024 and our principal business risks.

3

3 Performance targets, outlook,
assumptions and risks

(1) Capital intensity is defined as capital expenditures divided by operating revenues.
(2) Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP ratio. Refer to section 11.2, Non-GAAP ratios in this MD&A for more information on this measure.

99

3

MD&A Performance targets, outlook, assumptions and risks

3.2 Business outlook and assumptions
This section contains forward-looking statements, including relating to our projected financial performance, our anticipated capital expenditures
and network deployment plans, and our business outlook, objectives, plans and strategic priorities. Refer to the section Caution regarding
forward-looking statements at the beginning of this MD&A.

2024 outlook
2024 will be an important transformation year for BCE. We look to
maintain operational momentum, while balancing growth with financial
performance, as we continue our transition to a tech services and digital
media company. Our outlook for 2024 takes into consideration potential
recessionary and competitive pricing pressures, as well as the financial
impact of our strategic distribution partnership with Best Buy Canada
that will result in a decrease in largely consumer electronics related
revenue from our consolidated results. The impact of this partnership on
BCE’s adjusted EBITDA will not be material given relatively low margins
for consumer electronics. Our 2024 outlook also reflects the impacts
of our workforce restructuring and other transformation initiatives
that aim to better position the company for future growth and success.
Our strategic priorities in 2024 centre on:

• Accelerating growth investments, including in cloud and security

services, advanced advertising and digital transformation, while
de-emphasizing and reducing spending on highly-regulated and
declining businesses

• Maintaining focus on premium mobile phone subscriber acquisition
with increased emphasis on market growth

• Leveraging our existing fibre footprint, network speed leadership and
product strength to drive greater cross-sell penetration of Internet
households with wireless

Assumptions

• Accelerating our business markets growth in cloud, security and
workflow automation solutions

• Maintaining our strength in digital media driven by our advanced
advertising capabilities, premium inventory and new distribution
initiatives

• Realizing cost savings from our transformation initiatives, including
workforce reductions

Underpinning our outlook for 2024 is a stable financial profile that
reflects our sound operating fundamentals and consistent execution in
a competitive marketplace. Wireless, retail Internet and IPTV subscriber
base growth, together with promotional offer discipline and the flowthrough of operating cost savings from transformation initiatives,
including a reduced workforce, are projected to drive year-over-year
growth in revenue and adjusted EBITDA. Directly as a result of federal
government policies and the CRTC’s decision in November 2023 to
mandate wholesale access to Bell’s FTTP network, we plan a significant
reduction in capital expenditures that will lead to a slowdown in our
pure fibre build and lower spending in highly-regulated businesses.
Despite expected growth in adjusted EBITDA and lower planned capital
expenditures, a combination of higher severance payments related
to workforce restructuring initiatives, higher interest paid and lower
projected cash from working capital is expected to drive lower free
cash flow.

Assumptions about the Canadian economy

• A shrinking data and voice connectivity market as business customers

estimated growth in Canadian gross domestic product of 0.8% in 2024,
down from 1.0% in 2023

• The Canadian advertising market is experiencing a slowdown consistent

• Slowing economic growth, given the Bank of Canada’s most recent
• Easing, but still elevated, consumer price index (CPI) inflation as the
effects of past interest rate increases work through the economy

• Easing labour market conditions
• Muted growth in household spending due to slow labour income
growth, high debt-servicing costs and weak consumer confidence

• Soft business investment growth due to slow demand and still-elevated
borrowing costs

• Prevailing high interest rates expected to remain at or near current
levels

• Population growth resulting from strong immigration
• Canadian dollar expected to remain near current levels. Further

movements may be impacted by the degree of strength of the U.S.
dollar, interest rates and changes in commodity prices.

Market assumptions

• A higher level of wireline and wireless competition in consumer,
business and wholesale markets

• Higher, but slowing, wireless industry penetration

migrate to lower-priced telecommunications solutions or alternative
OTT competitors
with trends in the global advertising market, with improvement
expected in the medium term, although visibility to the specific timing
and pace of recovery remains limited

• Declines in broadcasting distribution undertaking (BDU) subscribers

driven by increasing competition from the continued rollout of
subscription video on demand (SVOD) streaming services together
with further scaling of OTT aggregators

Assumptions underlying expected continuing
contribution holiday in 2024 in the majority
of our pension plans

• At the relevant time, our defined benefit (DB) pension plans will remain

in funded positions with going concern surpluses and maintain solvency
ratios that exceed the minimum legal requirements for a contribution
holiday to be taken for applicable DB and defined contribution (DC)
components

• No significant declines in our DB pension plans’ financial position due
to declines in investment returns or interest rates

• No material experience losses from other events such as through
litigation or changes in laws, regulations or actuarial standards

100

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

General economic conditions
and geopolitical events

Our business and financial results could be negatively affected by
adverse economic conditions, including a potential recession. The current
global economic environment could further exacerbate pre-existing
risk factors, including those described in this MD&A, in light of slowing
Canadian economic growth, elevated CPI inflation, high interest rates,

high housing support costs relative to income, and financial and capital
market volatility. All of these could negatively affect our business and
financial results, including by adversely affecting business and customer
spending and the resulting demand for our products and services, our
customers’ financial condition, the availability of our offerings in light of
supply chain disruptions, and the cost and amount of funding available
in the financial markets.
Furthermore, risk factors including, without limitation, those described in
this MD&A, could be exacerbated, or become more likely to materialize,
as a result of geopolitical events, which could have an adverse impact
on our business or future financial results and related assumptions, the
extent of which is difficult to predict. Geopolitical events could adversely
impact the global economy and cause financial and capital market
volatility, broader geopolitical instability and armed conflicts, higher
energy prices, increased inflationary pressures limiting consumer and
business spending and increasing our operating costs, disruptions in
our supply chain and increased information security threats.

Regulatory environment and compliance
Our
networks

Our customers
and relationships

Our products
and services

Our
environment

Our
people

Our financial
resources

Our regulatory environment influences our strategies, and adverse
governmental or regulatory decisions could have negative financial,
operational, reputational or competitive consequences for our business

Failure to proactively address our legal and regulatory obligations, and
our involvement in various claims and legal proceedings, could have an
adverse effect on our business, financial performance and reputation

Although most of our retail services are not price-regulated, government
agencies and departments such as the CRTC, ISED, Canadian Heritage
and the Competition Bureau continue to play a significant role in
regulatory matters such as establishing and modifying regulations for
mandatory access to networks, spectrum auctions, the imposition of
consumer-related codes of conduct, approval of acquisitions, broadcast
and spectrum licensing, foreign ownership requirements, privacy and
cybersecurity obligations, and control of copyright piracy. As with all
regulated organizations, strategies are contingent upon regulatory
decisions. Adverse decisions by governments or regulatory agencies,
increased regulation or lack of effective anti-piracy remedies could
have negative financial, operational, reputational or competitive
consequences for our business.

Changes in laws or regulations, or in how they are interpreted, and
the adoption of new laws or regulations, as well as pending or future
litigation, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
performance and reputation. The increase in laws and regulations
around customer interactions and the technological evolution of
our business further create an environment of complex compliance
requirements that must be adequately managed. The failure to monitor
and comply with legal or regulatory obligations applicable to us could
expose us to litigation, significant fines and penalties, and operational
restrictions, as well as result in reputational harm. Heightened focus
on consumer protection through provincial legislation and regulatory
consumer codes, as well as increased legal and regulatory pressure
in the areas of privacy, accessibility, data governance and other ESG
topics, require that we build and operationalize enhanced compliance
frameworks and could further increase the company’s exposure to
investigations, litigation, sanctions, fines and reputational harm.

For a discussion of our regulatory environment and the principal risks
related thereto, refer to section 8, Regulatory environment as well as the
segment discussion under Principal business risks in section 5.1, Bell CTS.

3

Provided below is a summary description of certain of our principal
business risks that could have a material adverse effect on all of
our segments. Certain additional business segment-specific risks
are reported in section 5, Business segment analysis. For a detailed
description of the principal risks relating to our regulatory environment
and of the other principal business risks that could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, financial
results or reputation, refer to section 8, Regulatory environment and
section 9, Business risks, respectively.

MD&A Performance targets, outlook, assumptions and risks

3.3 Principal business risks

We become involved in various claims and legal proceedings as part of
our business. For a description of important legal proceedings involving
us, please see the section entitled Legal proceedings contained in the
BCE 2023 AIF.

101

Competitive environment

3

MD&A Performance targets, outlook, assumptions and risks

Our
networks

Our products
and services

Our financial
resources

Competitive activity in our industry is intense and competitive
dynamics are evolving, contributing to disruptions in each of our
business segments

We expect these trends to continue in the future, and the increased
competition we face as a result could negatively impact our business
including, without limitation, in the following ways:

Our market landscape is being reshaped by changing macroeconomic
and regulatory environments, increasing global and national competition,
and evolving customer preferences. As our business evolves and
technological advances drive new services, delivery models and
strategic partnerships, our competitive landscape continues to intensify
and expand to include new and emerging competitors, certain of which
were historically our partners or suppliers, as well as global-scale
competitors, including, in particular, cloud and OTT service providers, IoT
hardware and software providers, VoIP providers and other web-based
players that are penetrating the communications space with significant
resources and a large customer base over which to amortize costs.
Certain of these competitors are changing the competitive landscape by
establishing a material market presence, which has accelerated in recent
years. Established competitors further seek to consolidate or expand
their product offerings through acquisitions in order to increase scale
and market opportunities in light of these changes in market dynamics.
In particular, the combination of Rogers Communications Inc. (Rogers)
with Shaw Communications Inc. (Shaw) in April 2023 created a Canadian
competitor with larger scale, and the acquisition of Freedom Mobile
by Vidéotron Ltd. (Vidéotron) also increases its scale with a change in
competitive dynamics in several provinces, which could have adverse
implications in particular for our Bell CTS segment. Failure to effectively
respond to such evolving competitive dynamics could adversely affect
our business and financial results.

• The acceleration of disruptions and disintermediation in each of our

Technology substitution, IP networks and recent regulatory decisions,
in particular, continue to facilitate entry in our industry. In addition,
the effects of government policies that result in the acquisition of
spectrum at favourable pricing by regional facilities-based wireless
service providers distort market dynamics. These factors have changed
industry economics and allowed competitors to launch new products
and services and gain market share with far less investment in financial,
marketing, human, technological and network resources than has
historically been required. In particular, with regulatory decisions
mandating wholesale rates for wireline Internet and mobile virtual
network operator (MVNO) access, competitors can deliver their services
over our networks, leveraging regulatory obligations applicable to us,
therefore limiting their need to invest in building their own networks
and impacting the network-based differentiation of our services. Such
lower required investment challenges the monetization of our networks
and our operating model. Moreover, foreign OTT players are currently
not subject to the same Canadian content investment obligations as
those imposed on Canadian domestic digital suppliers, which provides
them with a competitive advantage over us.

• Evolving customer behaviour could result in ongoing customer

New technologies create a potential for diversifying our product
and service offerings and create growth opportunities. However, if
we are unable to develop and deploy new solutions in advance of
or concurrently with our competitors, if the market does not adopt
these new technologies in pace with our deployment of new solutions,
or if we fail to adequately assess and manage the risks associated
with these new solutions, our business and financial results could be
adversely affected.

102

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

business segments could adversely affect our business and financial
results

• Adverse economic conditions, such as economic downturns or

recessions, high interest rates and elevated inflation, adverse conditions
in the financial markets or a declining level of retail and commercial
activity, could have a negative impact on the demand for, and prices of,
our wireline, wireless and media products and services, and improve
the competitive position of lower-cost providers

• Competitors’ aggressive market offers, combined with heightened

customer sensitivity around pricing, could result in pricing pressures,
lower margins and increased costs of customer acquisition and
retention, and our market share and sales volumes could decrease
if we do not match competitors’ pricing levels or increase customer
acquisition and retention spending

• Should our value proposition on pricing, network, speed, service
or features not be considered sufficient for customers in light of
available alternatives, or should our products and services not be
provided over customers’ preferred delivery channels, this could
lead to increased churn

• The shift to online transactions could cause a reduction in in-store

traffic, which could adversely impact our ability to leverage our
extensive retail network to increase the number of subscribers and
sell our products and services
suppression of mobile phone data and offloading onto Wi-Fi networks,
as well as influence customer adoption of new services including,
without limitation, 5G and IoT

• The convergence of wireline and wireless services is impacting

product purchase choice by customers and could increase product
substitution in favour of lower-margin products as well as increase
churn. These trends are expected to increase with the continued
adoption of 5G and 5G+.

• Increased embedded SIM (eSIM) adoption makes it easier for customers
to change service providers and has the potential to upend existing
distribution models, including negatively impacting roaming revenue

• Regulatory decisions regarding wholesale access to our wireless and

fibre networks could facilitate entry of new competitors, including OTT
players, or strengthen the market position of current competitors, or
encourage existing competitors to expand beyond their traditional
footprint, which may negatively impact our retail subscriber base
in favour of lower-margin wholesale subscribers and thus could
negatively impact our capacity to optimize scale and invest in our
networks

• The extent and timely rollout of fibre networks and 5G and 5G+ mobile

services may be adversely impacted by government and regulatory
decisions, constraints on access to and price of network equipment,
labour shortages and potential operational challenges in delivering
new technology

• Increased insolvency, spending rationalization and consolidation by

business customers could lead to further disruptions in our Bell CTS
segment, driven by technology substitution, economic factors and
customers’ operational efficiencies

• The pressure from simpler, lower-cost, agile service models is driving
in-sourcing trends, which could have an adverse impact on our
managed services business

• Greater customer adoption of services like 5G, as well as IoT services

and applications in the areas of retail (e.g., home automation), business
(e.g., remote monitoring), transportation (e.g., connected car and asset
tracking) and urban city optimization (smart cities), combined with the
increased use of AI, is expected to accelerate competition in these areas

• Subscriber and viewer growth is challenged by changing viewer

habits, the expansion and continued market penetration of global
scale low-cost OTT content providers, OTT aggregators and other
alternative service providers, some of which may offer content and
platforms as loss leaders to support their core business, as well as
account stacking, CRTC arbitration and a fragmentation of audiences
due to an abundance of choices

• Competition, with both global competitors and traditional Canadian

TV competitors, for programming content could drive significant

increases in content acquisition and development costs as well as
reduced access to key content as some competitors withhold content
to enhance their OTT service offering

• The proliferation of content piracy could negatively impact our ability
to monetize products and services beyond our current expectations,
while creating bandwidth pressure without corresponding revenue
growth in the context of regulated wholesale high-speed Internet
access rates

• Our ability to grow digital and other alternative advertising revenue,

in the context of a changing and fragmented advertising market, is
being challenged by global-scale players

• Traditional radio faces accelerated substitution from new music

players and alternative streaming services such as those offered by
global audio streaming players and those made available by new
technologies, including smart car services

• The launch by Canadian and international competitors of low earth

orbit (LEO) satellites to provide connectivity, primarily in rural areas
and the North, intensifies competition, which could adversely affect
our network deployment strategy in such areas and negatively
impact demand for our connectivity services. The ability of our
subsidiary Northwestel, operating in Canada’s North, to respond to
the competitive threat from these providers is further hampered by
CRTC retail Internet regulations.

MD&A Performance targets, outlook, assumptions and risks

of lower-cost VoIP, collaboration and software-defined networking in
a wide area network (SD WAN) solutions offered by local and global
competitors, such as traditional software players, are changing our
approach to service offerings and pricing and could have an adverse
effect on our business

3

• Cloud-based and OTT-based substitution and the market expansion

For a further discussion of our competitive environment and related risks,
as well as a list of our main competitors, on a segmented basis, refer
to Competitive landscape and industry trends and Principal business
risks in section 5, Business segment analysis.

Technology/infrastructure transformation
Our
networks

Our customers
and relationships

Our products
and services

The evolution and transformation of our networks, systems and
operations using next-generation technologies, while lowering our
cost structure, are essential to effective competition and customer
experience
Globalization, increased competition and ongoing technological advances
are driving customer expectations for faster market responses, improved
customer service, enhanced user experiences and cost-effective
delivery. Meeting these expectations requires the deployment of new
service and product technologies along with customer service tools
that are network-neutral and based on a more collaborative and
integrated development environment. The availability of improved
networks and software technologies further provides the foundation
for better and faster connections, which have in turn led to a significant
growth in IoT applications. Change can be difficult and may present
unforeseen obstacles that might impact successful execution, and this
transition is made more challenging by the complexity of our multiproduct environment, combined with the complexity of our network
and IT infrastructure.
We are pursuing a transformation from a telco to a techco, which
entails fundamentally improving the experience and value we deliver
to customers enabled by modernized infrastructure, simplified business
processes, and a right sized cost model. Failure to successfully pursue this
transformation and accurately assess the potential of new technologies,

Our financial
resources
or to invest and evolve in the appropriate direction in an environment
of changing business models, could limit our ability to deliver value to
our customers through easy and simple buy and support interactions
and through enabling them to get what they want much faster through
any channel, as well as limit our customers’ ability to receive products,
services and content to any device or location regardless of network
access type. As a result, this could have an adverse impact on our
business and financial results.
Our network and IT evolution activities seek to use new as well as evolving
and developing technologies, including network functions virtualization,
software-defined networks, cloud technologies, MEC, open source
software, AI and machine learning. They further seek to transform
our networks and systems through consolidation, virtualization and
automation to achieve our objectives of becoming more agile in our
service delivery and operations, as well as providing omni-channel
capabilities for our customers and driving lower costs. Our evolution
activities also focus on building next-generation converged wireline
and wireless networks leveraging smart-core technologies, to enable
competitive quality and customer experience at a competitive cost
structure amid rapidly growing capacity requirements. Alignment
across technology platforms, product and service development and
operations is increasingly critical to ensure appropriate trade-offs
and optimization of capital allocation. Failure to adopt best-in-class

103

MD&A Performance targets, outlook, assumptions and risks

3

technology practices in transforming our operations in order to enable
a truly customer-centric service experience may hinder our ability to
build customers’ trust in our innovation and technological capabilities
and our ability to compete on footprint, service experience and cost
structure. Any one or more of the above could have an adverse impact
on our business, financial results and reputation.
Customer retention and new customer acquisitions may be hindered
during our transformation activities if such transformation causes poor
service performance, which in turn may adversely affect our ability to
achieve operational and financial objectives. Failure to quickly maximize
adaptable infrastructures, processes and technologies to efficiently
respond to evolving customer patterns and behaviours and to leverage IP
and automation across many facets of our network, product and service
portfolio could inhibit a fully customer-centric approach. This could
reduce our ability to provide comprehensive self-serve convenience,
real-time provisioning, cost savings and flexibility in delivery and
consumption, leading to negative business and financial outcomes.
We further seek to expand our network footprint to enhance our value
proposition and meet customer needs while deploying technologies
to support growth. However, adverse government, regulatory or
court decisions may impact the specific nature, magnitude, location
and timing of investment decisions. In particular, the requirement to
provide aggregated access to our FTTP facilities on a wholesale basis,
lowering of rates by the CRTC of mandated wholesale services over FTTP
and/or FTTN, the imposition of unfavourable terms or the adoption of
unfavourable rates in arbitration processes associated with the facilitiesbased MVNO access service the CRTC has implemented, the potential
for additional mandated access to our networks, or the imposition of
broader wholesale obligations on wireless networks would undermine
the incentives for facilities-based digital infrastructure providers to invest
in next-generation wireline and wireless networks. Failure to continue
investment in next-generation capabilities in a disciplined, timely and
strategic manner could limit our ability to compete effectively and to
achieve desired business and financial results.
Other examples of risks that could affect the achievement of our desired
technology/infrastructure transformation include the following:

• The current global economic environment as well as geopolitical events
may bring about further incremental costs, delays or unavailability
of equipment, materials and resources, which may impact our ability
to continue building next-generation converged networks and drive
other transformation initiatives

• Challenges in hiring, retaining, insourcing, and developing technical

and skilled resources could adversely impact transformation activities.
Potential deterioration in employee morale and de-prioritization of
transformation initiatives due to staff reductions, cost reductions
or reorganizations could adversely affect our transformation and
financial results.

104

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

• Suboptimal capital deployment in network build, infrastructure and

process upgrades, and customer service improvements, could hinder
our ability to compete effectively

• Execution risk and lower or slower than expected savings achieved
through targeted savings initiatives (e.g., vendor management,
real estate optimization) could impact our ability to invest in the
transformation

• We, and other telecommunications carriers upon which we rely to

provide services, must be able to purchase high-quality, reputable
network equipment and services from third-party suppliers on a
timely basis and at a reasonable cost

• Network construction and deployment on municipal or private property

requires the issuance of municipal or property owner consents,
respectively, for the installation of network equipment, which could
increase the cost of, and cause delays in, fibre and wireless rollouts

• The successful deployment of 5G mobile services could be impacted
by various factors affecting coverage and costs

• Higher demand for faster Internet speed and capacity, coupled with

governmental policies and initiatives, creates tensions around FTTP
deployment in terms of geographic preference and pace of rollout

• The increasing dependence on applications for content delivery, sales,

customer engagement and service experience drives the need for
new and scarce capabilities (sourced internally or externally), that
may not be available, as well as the need for associated operating
processes integrated into ongoing operations

• New products, services or applications could reduce demand for our
existing, more profitable service offerings or cause prices for those
services to decline, and could result in a shorter life cycle for existing
or developing technologies, which could increase depreciation and
amortization expense

• The decommissioning of legacy equipment could be challenged by
customer requirements to continue using older technologies as well
as inherent risks involved with transitioning to new systems

• As content providers’ business models change, content consumption

habits evolve and viewing options increase, our ability to aggregate
and distribute relevant content and our ability to develop alternative
delivery vehicles to compete in new markets and increase customer
engagement and revenue streams may be hindered by the significant
software development and network investment required

• Successfully managing the development and deployment of relevant

product solutions on a timely basis to match the speed of adoption of
IoT in the areas of retail, business and government could be challenging

• Customers continue to expect improvements in customer service, new

functions and features, and reductions in the price charged to provide
those services. Our ability to provide such improvements increasingly
relies upon using a number of rapidly evolving technologies, including AI,
machine learning and “big data”. However, the use of such technologies
is being increasingly scrutinized by legislators and regulators. If we
cannot build market-leading competencies in the use of these emerging
technologies in a way that respects societal values, we may not be
able to continue to meet changing customer expectations and to
continue to grow our business.

4 Consolidated financial analysis
Our financial
resources
This section provides detailed information and analysis about BCE’s performance in 2023 compared with 2022. It focuses on BCE’s
consolidated operating results and provides financial information for our Bell CTS and Bell Media business segments. For further discussion
and analysis of our business segments, refer to section 5, Business segment analysis.

2023

2022

$ change

% change

Service

21,154

20,956

198

0.9%

Product

3,519

3,218

301

9.4%

Operating revenues

Total operating revenues

24,673

24,174

499

2.1%

Operating costs

(14,256)

(13,975)

(281)

(2.0%)

Adjusted EBITDA

10,417

10,199

218

2.1%

Adjusted EBITDA margin

42.2%

42.2%

(200)

(94)

(106)

n.m.

Severance, acquisition and other costs

–

Depreciation

(3,745)

(3,660)

(85)

(2.3%)

Amortization

(1,173)

(1,063)

(110)

(10.3%)

(1,475)

(1,146)

(329)

(28.7%)

108

51

57

n.m.

Impairment of assets

(143)

(279)

136

48.7%

Other expense

(466)

(115)

(351)

n.m.

Income taxes

(996)

(967)

(29)

(3.0%)

Net earnings

2,327

2,926

(599)

(20.5%)

Common shareholders

2,076

2,716

(640)

(23.6%)

Preferred shareholders

187

152

35

23.0%

Non-controlling interest

64

58

6

10.3%

Net earnings

2,327

2,926

(599)

(20.5%)

Adjusted net earnings

2,926

3,057

(131)

(4.3%)

Net earnings per common share (EPS)

2.28

2.98

(0.70)

(23.5%)

Adjusted EPS

3.21

3.35

(0.14)

(4.2%)

4

BCE consolidated income statements

MD&A Consolidated financial analysis

4.1 Introduction

Finance costs
Interest expense
Net return on post-employment benefit plans

Net earnings attributable to:

n.m.: not meaningful

105

4

MD&A Consolidated financial analysis

BCE statements of cash flows – selected information
2023

2022

$ change

Cash flows from operating activities

7,946

8,365

(419)

(5.0%)

Capital expenditures

(4,581)

(5,133)

552

10.8%

Free cash flow

3,144

3,067

77

2.5%

BCE operating revenues grew by 2.1% in 2023, compared to last year,
attributable to higher product revenues of 9.4%, primarily due to greater
wireless device sales, coupled with higher wireline equipment sales
to large enterprise customers due to the alleviating year-over-year
impact from global supply chain disruptions experienced in 2022.
Service revenues also contributed to the growth in BCE operating
revenues, increasing by 0.9% year over year, mainly from higher
wireless and Internet revenues combined with the contribution from
various acquisitions made during the year. This was moderated by
continued erosion in legacy voice, data and satellite TV revenues, as
well as lower media advertising revenues, primarily driven by ongoing
unfavourable economic conditions.
In 2023, net earnings decreased by 20.5%, compared to 2022, due to
higher other expense mainly due to losses on our equity investments
in associates and joint ventures which included a loss on BCE’s share
of an obligation to repurchase at fair value the minority interest in one
of BCE’s joint ventures, higher interest expense, higher depreciation
and amortization and higher severance, acquisition and other costs,
partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower impairment of assets.

% change

BCE’s adjusted EBITDA grew by 2.1% in 2023, compared to last year, driven
by growth from our Bell CTS segment, partly offset by a decline in our
Bell Media segment. The year-over-year increase in adjusted EBITDA
reflected higher operating revenues, partly offset by increased operating
expenses, primarily attributable to greater cost of revenue, associated
with the revenue growth, moderated by various cost reduction initiatives
and operating efficiencies. This drove a corresponding adjusted EBITDA
margin of 42.2% in 2023, which remained unchanged from last year.
In 2023, BCE’s cash flows from operating activities decreased by
$419 million, compared to 2022, mainly due to lower cash from working
capital, in part from timing of supplier payments, and higher interest
paid, partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower contributions
to post-employment benefit plans.
Free cash flow increased by $77 million in 2023, compared to 2022,
mainly due to lower capital expenditures, partly offset by lower cash
flows from operating activities, excluding cash from acquisition and
other costs paid.

4.2 Customer connections
Our customers
and relationships

BCE net activations (losses)
2023

2022

% change

411,189

489,901

(16.1%)

Postpaid

426,172

439,842

(3.1%)

Prepaid

(14,983)

50,059

n.m.

Mobile connected device net subscriber activations

293,307

202,024

45.2%

Retail high-speed Internet net subscriber activations

187,126

201,762

(7.3%)

Retail TV net subscriber (losses) activations

(26,449)

5,148

n.m.

81,918

94,400

(13.2%)

Mobile phone net subscriber activations (losses)

IPTV

(108,367)

(89,252)

(21.4%)

Retail residential NAS lines net losses

(176,612)

(175,788)

(0.5%)

Total services net activations

688,561

723,047

(4.8%)

Satellite

n.m.: not meaningful

106

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Total BCE customer connections
Postpaid (2)
Prepaid
Mobile connected devices subscribers (2)

2023

2022

10,287,046

9,949,086

% change

3.4%

9,422,830

9,069,887

3.9%

864,216

879,199

(1.7%)

2,732,548

2,451,818

11.4%

Retail high-speed Internet subscribers (1) (3) (4)

4,473,429

4,258,570

5.0%

Retail TV subscribers (1) (4)

2,725,292

2,751,498

(1.0%)

IPTV (1) (4)

2,070,342

1,988,181

4.1%

Satellite

654,950

763,317

(14.2%)

Retail residential NAS lines (1) (4)

2,021,617

2,190,771

(7.7%)

Total services subscribers

22,239,932

21,601,743

3.0%

(1) In Q2 2023, our retail high-speed Internet, retail IPTV and retail residential NAS lines subscriber bases increased by 35,080, 243 and 7,458 subscribers, respectively, as a result of small
acquisitions.
(2) In Q1 2023, we adjusted our mobile phone postpaid and mobile connected device subscriber bases to remove older non-revenue generating business subscribers of 73,229 and 12,577,
respectively.
(3) In Q1 2023, subsequent to a review of customer account records, our retail high-speed Internet subscriber base was reduced by 7,347 subscribers.
(4) In Q4 2022, as a result of the acquisition of Distributel, our retail high-speed Internet, retail IPTV and retail residential NAS lines subscriber bases increased by 128,065, 2,315 and
64,498 subscribers, respectively.

• 411,189 mobile phone net subscriber activations, along with
293,307 mobile connected device net subscriber activations

• 187,126 retail high-speed Internet net subscriber activations
• 26,449 retail TV net subscriber losses comprised of 108,367 retail

satellite TV net subscriber losses, partly offset by 81,918 retail IPTV
net subscriber activations

• 176,612 retail residential NAS lines net losses

At December 31, 2023, BCE’s retail subscriber connections totaled
22,239,932, up 3.0% year over year, and consisted of:

• 10,287,046 mobile phone subscribers, up 3.4% year over year, and

2,732,548 mobile connected device subscribers, up 11.4% year over year

• 4,473,429 retail high-speed Internet subscribers, 5.0% higher year
over year

4

BCE added 688,561 net retail subscriber activations in 2023, down 4.8%
compared to last year. The net retail subscriber activations in 2023
consisted of:

MD&A Consolidated financial analysis

Mobile phone subscribers (2)

• 2,725,292 total retail TV subscribers, comprised of 2,070,342 retail

IPTV subscribers, up 4.1% year over year, and 654,950 retail satellite
TV subscribers, down 14.2% year over year

• 2,021,617 retail residential NAS lines, down 7.7% year over year

4.3 Operating revenues
BCE

Revenues
(in $ millions)
$24,174

$24,673

+2.1%
22

BCE

2023

2022

$ change

Bell CTS

21,926

21,301

625

2.9%

Bell Media

3,117

3,254

(137)

(4.2%)

Inter-segment eliminations

(370)

(381)

11

2.9%

24,673

24,174

499

2.1%

Total BCE operating revenues

% change

23

BCE operating revenues increased by 2.1% in 2023, compared to last
year, driven by 9.4% higher product revenues of $3,519 million and 0.9%
higher service revenues of $21,154 million. The year-over-year growth
in operating revenues reflected higher revenues from our Bell CTS
segment, partly offset by a decline in our Bell Media segment. Bell CTS
operating revenues grew by 2.9%, year over year, due to higher product

and service revenues of 9.4% and 1.8%, respectively. The higher service
revenues were driven by ongoing growth in wireless and wireline data
revenues, moderated by continued erosion in wireline voice revenues.
Bell Media operating revenues declined by 4.2% in 2023, compared
to last year, from lower advertising revenues, partly offset by higher
subscriber revenues.

107

4.4 Operating costs
BCE

BCE

Operating costs

Operating cost profile

(in $ millions)

Cost of revenues (1)

Labour (2)

Other (3)

4

MD&A Consolidated financial analysis

13%

$13,975

$14,256

2022

2023

13%
31%

55%

32%

2022

56%

2023

2023

2022

$ change

% change

Bell CTS

(12,206)

(11,847)

(359)

(3.0%)

Bell Media

(2,420)

(2,509)

89

3.5%

Inter-segment eliminations

370

381

(11)

(2.9%)

Total BCE operating costs

(14,256)

(13,975)

(281)

(2.0%)

(1) Cost of revenues includes costs of wireless devices and other equipment sold, network and content costs, and payments to other carriers.
(2) Labour costs (net of capitalized costs) include wages, salaries and related taxes and benefits, post-employment benefit plans service cost, and other labour costs, including contractor
and outsourcing costs.
(3) Other operating costs include marketing, advertising and sales commission costs, bad debt expense, taxes other than income taxes, IT costs, professional service fees and rent.

BCE

BCE operating costs increased by 2.0% in 2023, compared to last year, due to higher expenses at Bell CTS of 3.0%, primarily reflecting increased
cost of revenues associated with the revenue growth, partly offset by lower expenses at Bell Media of 3.5%, due to lower programming and
content costs.

4.5 Net earnings
BCE

In 2023, net earnings decreased by 20.5%, compared to 2022, due to higher other expense
mainly due to losses on our equity investments in associates and joint ventures which included
a loss on BCE’s share of an obligation to repurchase at fair value the minority interest in one of
BCE’s joint ventures, higher interest expense, higher depreciation and amortization and higher
severance, acquisition and other costs, partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower
impairment of assets.

Net earnings
(in $ millions)
$2,926
$2,327

(20.5%)
22

108

23

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

4.6 Adjusted EBITDA
BCE

BCE

(in $ millions)

(in $ millions)
(% adjusted EBITDA margin)

Adjusted EBITDA

Adjusted EBITDA

$10,417

$10,199

$10,417

2022

2023

42.2%

42.2%

$745

22

$697

Bell CTS
Bell Media

23

2023

+2.1%
2022

$ change

266

Bell CTS

9,720

9,454

Adjusted EBITDA margin

44.3%

44.4%

697

745

Adjusted EBITDA margin

22.4%

22.9%

Total BCE adjusted EBITDA

10,417

10,199

Adjusted EBITDA margin

42.2%

42.2%

Bell Media

% change

2.8%
(0.1) pts

(48)

(6.4%)
(0.5) pts

218

MD&A Consolidated financial analysis

$9,720

$9,454

2.1%
–

4

$10,199

BCE

BCE’s adjusted EBITDA grew by 2.1% in 2023, compared to last year, driven by a higher year-over-year contribution from Bell CTS of 2.8%,
moderated by a decline in Bell Media of 6.4%. The increase in adjusted EBITDA was driven by higher operating revenues, partly offset by increased
operating expenses. Adjusted EBITDA margin of 42.2% in 2023 remained unchanged from 2022.

4.7 Severance, acquisition and other costs
This category includes various income and expenses that are not related directly to the operating revenues generated during the year. This
includes severance costs consisting of charges related to involuntary and voluntary employee terminations, as well as transaction costs, such
as legal and financial advisory fees, related to completed or potential acquisitions, employee severance costs related to the purchase of a
business, the costs to integrate acquired companies into our operations, costs relating to litigation and regulatory decisions, when they are
significant, and other costs.

2023

BCE

Severance, acquisition
and other costs

Severance, acquisition and other costs included:

• Severance costs of $134 million related to involuntary and voluntary

(in $ millions)

employee terminations

• Acquisition and other costs of $66 million

2022

$94

$200

Severance, acquisition and other costs included:

• Severance costs of $83 million related to involuntary and voluntary
employee terminations

• Acquisition and other costs of $11 million
2022

2023

109

4.8 Depreciation and amortization
The amount of our depreciation and
amortization in any year is affected by:

BCE

Depreciation

Amortization

• How much we invested in new property,

(in $ millions)

(in $ millions)

plant and equipment and intangible
assets in previous years

$3,660

$3,745

22

23

BCE

$1,063

$1,173

• How many assets we retired during
the year

4

MD&A Consolidated financial analysis

• Estimates of the useful lives of assets

Depreciation

Depreciation in 2023 increased by $85 million, compared to 2022, mainly
due to a higher asset base as we continued to invest in our broadband
and wireless networks.

23

Amortization

Amortization in 2023 increased by $110 million, compared to 2022,
mainly due to a higher asset base.

4.9 Finance costs
BCE

Interest expense
(in $ millions)
$1,475

BCE

Net return on
post-employment
benefit plans
(in $ millions)

$1,146
$108

22

23

22

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Interest expense

Interest expense in 2023 increased by $329 million, compared to 2022,
mainly due to higher average debt balances and higher interest rates.

Net return on post-employment benefit plans

Net return on our post-employment benefit plans is based on market
conditions that existed at the beginning of the year as well as the net
post-employment benefit plan asset (liability). On January 1, 2023, the
discount rate was 5.3% compared to 3.2% on January 1, 2022.

In 2023, net return on post-employment benefit plans increased by
$57 million, compared to last year, as a result of a higher discount rate
in 2023 and a higher net asset position.

$51

110

22

23

The impacts of changes in market conditions during the year are
recognized in Other comprehensive (loss) income (OCI).

4.10 Impairment of assets
During the fourth quarter of 2023, we recognized $86 million of impairment charges for French TV channels
within our Bell Media segment. The impairment charges were the result of a reduction in advertising demand
in the industry resulting from economic uncertainties and unfavourable impacts to market-based valuation
assumptions. These charges included $41 million allocated to indefinite-life intangible assets for broadcast
licences and brands, and $45 million to finite-life intangible assets for program and feature film rights.

BCE

Impairment of assets
(in $ millions)
$279

There was no impairment of Bell Media goodwill.

$143

Additionally in 2023, we recorded impairment charges of $57 million related mainly to right-of-use assets
for certain office spaces we ceased using as part of our real estate optimization strategy as a result of
our hybrid work policy.

2022

During the fourth quarter of 2022, we recognized $147 million of impairment charges for French TV channels
within our Bell Media segment. The impairment charges were the result of a reduction in advertising
demand in the industry resulting from economic uncertainties and unfavourable impacts to assumptions
for discount rates. These charges included $94 million allocated to indefinite-life intangible assets for
broadcast licences, and $53 million to finite-life intangible assets for program and feature film rights.

22

MD&A Consolidated financial analysis

2023

23

There was no impairment of Bell Media goodwill.

4

Additionally in 2022, we recorded impairment charges of $132 million related mainly to right-of-use assets
for certain office spaces we ceased using as part of our real estate optimization strategy as a result of
our hybrid work policy.

4.11 Other expense
Other (expense) income includes income and expense items, such as:

• Net mark-to-market gains or losses on derivatives used to economically hedge equity settled sharebased compensation plans

BCE

Other expense
(in $ millions)

• Equity income or losses from investments in associates and joint ventures
• Gains or losses on retirements and disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
• Gains or losses on investments, including gains or losses when we dispose of, write down or reduce
our ownership in investments

• Early debt redemption costs
• Interest income
For the year ended december 31

$466

$115
22

23
2023

2022

(581)

(42)

Equity (losses) income from investments in associates and joint ventures
Loss on investment
Operations
Net mark-to-market losses on derivatives used to economically hedge equity settled share-based compensation plans

28

(19)

(103)

(53)

Early debt redemption costs

(1)

(18)

Gains on investments

80

24

Interest income

67

22

Gains (losses) on retirements and disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

11

(27)

Other

33

(2)

(466)

(115)

Total other expense

111

2023

2022

Other expense of $115 million included net mark-to-market losses on
derivatives used to economically hedge equity settled share-based
compensation plans, losses on our equity investments which included
a loss on BCE’s share of an obligation to repurchase at fair value the
minority interest in one of BCE’s joint ventures and losses on operations
from our equity investments, losses on retirements and disposals
of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and early
debt redemption costs, partly offset by gains on investments which
included a gain related to the sale of our wholly-owned subsidiary,
6362222 Canada Inc. (Createch).

4.12 Income taxes
BCE

The following table reconciles the amount of reported income taxes in the income
statements with income taxes calculated at a statutory income tax rate of 26.8%
for both 2023 and 2022.

Income taxes
(in $ millions)

For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

Net earnings

2,327

2,926

996

967

Add back income taxes

$967

$996

Earnings before income taxes

3,323

3,893

Applicable statutory tax rate

26.8%

26.8%

(891)

(1,043)

Income taxes computed at applicable
statutory rates

4

MD&A Consolidated financial analysis

Other expense of $466 million included losses on our equity investments
in associates and joint ventures which included a loss on BCE’s share of
an obligation to repurchase at fair value the minority interest in one of
BCE’s joint ventures and net mark-to-market losses on derivatives used
to economically hedge equity settled share-based compensation plans,
partly offset by gains on our investments as a result of the sale of our
63% ownership in certain production studios and higher interest income.

2022

2023

Non-taxable portion of gains on investments

5

4

Uncertain tax positions

16

91

Change in estimate relating to prior periods
Non-taxable portion of equity losses
Other
Total income taxes
Average effective tax rate

10

–

(149)

(18)

13

(1)

(996)

(967)

30.0%

24.8%

Income taxes in 2023 increased by $29 million, compared to 2022, mainly due to
a lower value of uncertain tax positions favourably resolved in 2023 compared
to 2022, partly offset by lower taxable income.

4.13 Net earnings attributable to common shareholders and EPS
BCE

Net earnings attributable
to common shareholders

BCE

BCE

BCE

EPS

Adjusted net earnings

Adjusted EPS

(in $)

(in $ millions)

(in $)

$3,057

$3.35

(in $ millions)

$2,716

$2,926

$3.21

$2.98
$2,076

22

112

23

$2.28

22

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

23

22

23

22

23

Net earnings attributable to common shareholders in 2023 decreased
by $640 million, or $0.70 per common share, compared to 2022, due to
higher other expense mainly due to losses on our equity investments in
associates and joint ventures which included a loss on BCE’s share of
an obligation to repurchase at fair value the minority interest in one
of BCE’s joint ventures, higher interest expense, higher depreciation
and amortization and higher severance, acquisition and other costs,
partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower impairment of assets.

Excluding the impact of severance, acquisition and other costs, net
mark-to-market gains (losses) on derivatives used to economically
hedge equity settled share-based compensation plans, net equity gains
(losses) on investments in associates and joint ventures, net gains (losses)
on investments, early debt redemption costs and impairment of assets,
net of tax and NCI, adjusted net earnings in 2023 was $2,926 million,
or $3.21 per common share, compared to $3,057 million, or $3.35 per
common share, in 2022.

4.14 Capital expenditures
BCE

BCE capital expenditures of $4,581 million in 2023, declined by 10.8% year over year, which
corresponded to a capital intensity ratio of 18.6%, down 2.6 pts over last year. The decline
was driven by lower planned capital spending in 2023 subsequent to accelerated network
investments in 2022, as well as an unplanned additional $105 million decrease in Q4 2023 as
a result of the CRTC’s decision in November 2023 to mandate wholesale access to Bell’s FTTP
network. We continued to focus our investments in 2023 on the further expansion of our
FTTP and mobile 5G networks.

Capital expenditures
(in $ millions)

Capital intensity
(%)
$5,133
21.2%

$4,581

4

18.6%

MD&A Consolidated financial analysis

Our
networks

$4,971

$4,421

23.3%

20.2%

$162

$160

5.0%

22

5.1%

Bell CTS
Bell Media

23

4.15 Cash flows
In 2023, BCE’s cash flows from operating
activities decreased by $419 million,
compared to 2022, mainly due to lower cash
from working capital, in part from timing of
supplier payments, and higher interest paid,
partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and
lower contributions to post-employment
benefit plans.
Free cash flow increased by $77 million
in 2023, compared to 2022, mainly due to
lower capital expenditures, partly offset by
lower cash flows from operating activities,
excluding cash from acquisition and other
costs paid.

BCE

BCE

Cash flows from operating activities

Free cash flow

(in $ millions)

(in $ millions)

$8,365

$7,946
$3,067

$3,144

(5.0%)
22

23

+2.5%
22

23

113

5 Business segment analysis
Our
networks

Our customers
and relationships

Our products
and services

Our financial
resources

5.1 Bell CTS
Financial performance analysis
Bell CTS

Bell CTS

Revenues

Adjusted EBITDA

(in $ millions)

(in $ millions)
(% adjusted EBITDA margin)

$21,301

$21,926

$9,454

$9,720

2022

2023

Mobile phone
prepaid net
subscriber
losses in 2023

Mobile phone
postpaid
churn in 2023

+3.4%

Mobile phone
postpaid net
subscriber
activations
in 2023

426,172 (14,983) 1.15%

+0.3%

in 2023

Decreased 3.1%
vs. 2022

vs. net activations
of 50,059 in 2022

2023: $59.08
2022: $58.92

84%

85%

16%

15%

22

Service
Product

+2.9%

23

44.3%

44.4%

+2.8%

5

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell CTS

2023 performance highlights

Total mobile
phone
subscriber
growth (1)

Retail high-speed Internet
subscriber growth (3) (4) (5)

Increased 0.23 pts
vs. 2022

Retail high-speed Internet net
subscriber activations in 2023

Retail TV subscriber
decline (3) (5)

+5.0%

187,126

(1.0%)

in 2023

Decreased 7.3% vs. 2022

in 2023

Retail IPTV net subscriber
activations in 2023

Mobile phone
blended average
revenue per
user (ARPU) (2)
per month

Retail residential NAS lines
subscriber decline (3) (5)

81,918

(7.7%)

Decreased 13.2% vs. 2022

in 2023

(1) In Q1 2023, we adjusted our mobile phone postpaid subscriber base to remove older non-revenue generating business subscribers of 73,229.
(2) Effective Q1 2023, as a result of the segment reporting changes impacting intersegment eliminations, ARPU has been updated and is defined as Bell CTS wireless external services revenues
(previously wireless operating service revenues) divided by the average mobile phone subscriber base for the specified period, expressed as a dollar unit per month.
(3) In Q2 2023, our retail high-speed Internet, retail IPTV and retail residential NAS lines subscriber bases increased by 35,080, 243 and 7,458 subscribers, respectively, as a result of small acquisitions.
(4) In Q1 2023, subsequent to a review of customer account records, our retail high-speed Internet subscriber base was reduced by 7,347 subscribers.
(5) In Q4 2022, as a result of the acquisition of Distributel, our retail high-speed Internet, retail IPTV and retail residential NAS lines subscriber bases increased by 128,065, 2,315 and
64,498 subscribers, respectively.

114

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Bell CTS results

revenues

% change

Wireless

7,120

6,821

299

4.4%

Wireline data

8,084

7,920

164

2.1%

Wireline voice

2,862

3,002

(140)

(4.7%)

312

309

3

1.0%

18,378

18,052

326

1.8%

29

31

(2)

(6.5%)

Operating service revenues

18,407

18,083

324

1.8%

Wireless

2,885

2,714

171

6.3%

Wireline

634

504

130

25.8%

External/Operating product revenues

3,519

3,218

301

9.4%

Total external revenues

21,897

21,270

627

2.9%

Total operating revenues

21,926

21,301

625

2.9%

Other wireline services
External service revenues
Inter-segment service revenues

Bell CTS operating revenues grew by 2.9% in 2023, compared to last
year, driven by both higher service and product revenues. The yearover-year increase in service revenues reflected higher wireless and
wireline data revenues, partly offset by continued erosion in wireline
voice revenues.

These factors were partly offset by:

Bell CTS operating service revenues increased by 1.8% in 2023,
compared to 2022.

• Wireline voice revenues decreased by 4.7% in 2023, compared to

• Wireless revenues increased by 4.4% in 2023, compared to last year,

• Ongoing retail residential NAS lines erosion, combined with business
voice declines, driven by technological substitution to wireless and
Internet-based services

driven by:

• Greater acquisition, retention and bundle discounts on residential
services
• Ongoing erosion in our satellite TV subscriber base, along with IP
connectivity and legacy data declines
last year, driven by:

• Continued growth in our mobile phone and connected device
subscriber bases coupled with the flow-through of rate increases

• Reduced sales of international wholesale long distance minutes

• Higher roaming revenues due to increased international travel

These factors were partly offset by:

These factors were partly offset by:

• Flow-through of residential rate increases

• Unfavourable impact of competitive pricing pressures

• The acquisition of Distributel in December 2022 and other small
acquisitions made during the year

• Lower data overages driven by greater customer adoption of
monthly plans with higher data thresholds, including unlimited plans

• Wireline data revenues increased by 2.1% in 2023, compared to last
year, driven by:

• Greater retail Internet and IPTV subscriber bases, coupled with the
flow-through of residential rate increases
• The acquisitions of Distributel in December 2022, FX Innovation in
June 2023, and other small acquisitions made during the year
• Increased sales of maintenance contracts and software subscriptions
to business customers

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell CTS

$ change

5

2022

2023

Bell CTS operating product revenues increased by 9.4% in 2023, over
last year.

• Wireless operating product revenues increased by 6.3% in 2023,

compared to last year, due to greater sales mix of premium mobile
phones and disciplined handset pricing, partly offset by lower
contracted sales volumes and reduced consumer electronic sales
at The Source

• Wireline operating product revenues grew by 25.8% year over year,

from strong sales to large business customers mainly due to the
alleviating year-over-year impact from global supply chain challenges
experienced in 2022

operating costs and adjusted EBItda
2023

2022

$ change

% change

Operating costs

(12,206)

(11,847)

(359)

(3.0%)

Adjusted EBITDA

9,720

9,454

266

Adjusted EBITDA margin

44.3%

44.4%

Bell CTS operating costs increased by 3.0% in 2023, compared to
2022, due to:

• Greater costs from the acquisitions of Distributel in December 2022,

2.8%
(0.1) pts

• Higher cost of goods sold corresponding to higher product revenues
• Increased costs related to the revenue growth from maintenance
and software subscriptions

FX Innovation in June 2023, and other small acquisitions made during
the year

115

These factors were partly offset by:

• Lower labour costs reflecting workforce reductions, along with various
other cost reduction initiatives and operating efficiencies

• Pension savings, driven by lower DB expense due to a higher yearover-year discount rate

• Lower year-over-year storm-related repairs expense

Bell CTS adjusted EBITDA increased by 2.8% in 2023, compared to last
year, due to higher operating revenues, partly offset by greater operating
costs. Adjusted EBITDA margin of 44.3% in 2023, was essentially stable
year over year, decreasing by only 0.1 pts over last year, reflecting an
increased proportion of low-margin product sales in our total revenue
base, partly offset by service revenue flow-through.

Bell CtS operating metrics
Wireless
2023

2022

Change

% change

Mobile phones
59.08

58.92

0.16

0.3%

2,224,555

1,953,912

270,643

13.9%

Postpaid

1,608,503

1,355,772

252,731

18.6%

Prepaid

616,052

598,140

17,912

3.0%

411,189

489,901

(78,712)

(16.1%)

Postpaid

426,172

439,842

(13,670)

(3.1%)

Prepaid

(14,983)

50,059

(65,042)

1.51%

1.27%

(0.24) pts
(0.23) pts

Blended ARPU ($/month)

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell CTS

Gross subscriber activations

Net subscriber activations (losses)

Blended churn % (average per month)

n.m.

Postpaid

1.15%

0.92%

Prepaid

5.31%

4.85%

Subscribers (1)

10,287,046

9,949,086

337,960

3.4%

Postpaid (1)

9,422,830

9,069,887

352,943

3.9%

Prepaid

864,216

879,199

(14,983)

(1.7%)

(0.46) pts

Mobile connected devices
Net subscriber activations

293,307

202,024

91,283

45.2%

2,732,548

2,451,818

280,730

11.4%

5

Subscribers (1)

n.m.: not meaningful
(1) In Q1 2023, we adjusted our mobile phone postpaid and mobile connected device subscriber bases to remove older non-revenue generating business subscribers of 73,229 and 12,577,
respectively.

Mobile phone blended ARPU of $59.08 increased by 0.3% in 2023,
compared to last year, driven by:

• Higher roaming revenues due to increased international travel
• Flow-through of rate increases
These factors were partly offset by:

in 2023, compared to last year, due to higher subscriber deactivations
and greater migrations to postpaid, partly offset by higher gross
activations

Mobile phone blended churn of 1.51% increased by 0.24 pts in 2023,
compared to 2022.

• Unfavourable impact of competitive pricing pressures
• Lower data overages due to greater customer adoption of monthly

• Mobile phone postpaid churn of 1.15% increased by 0.23 pts in 2023,

Mobile phone gross subscriber activations grew by 13.9% in 2023,
compared to 2022, due to both higher postpaid and prepaid gross
subscriber activations.

• Mobile phone prepaid churn of 5.31% increased by 0.46 pts in 2023,

plans with higher data thresholds, including unlimited plans

• Mobile phone postpaid gross subscriber activations increased by

18.6% in 2023, compared to last year, driven by increased immigration,
continued 5G momentum, successful bundled service offerings and
effective promotions

• Mobile phone prepaid gross subscriber activations increased by

3.0% in 2023, compared to last year, driven by higher immigration
and travel to Canada, partly offset by more attractive promotional
offers in the market on postpaid discount brands

Mobile phone net subscriber activations decreased by 16.1% in 2023,
compared to 2022, due to lower postpaid net subscriber activations,
as well as prepaid net subscriber losses.

• Mobile phone postpaid net subscriber activations decreased

by 3.1% in 2023, compared to last year, due to higher subscriber
deactivations, partly offset by higher gross activations and greater
migrations from prepaid

116

• Mobile phone prepaid net subscriber losses were 65,042 unfavourable

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

compared to last year, due to higher subscriber deactivations driven
by greater overall competitive market activity and promotional offer
intensity compared to last year
compared to last year, due to higher subscriber deactivations driven
by greater overall competitive market activity and more attractive
promotional offers in the market on postpaid discount brands

Mobile phone subscribers at December 31, 2023 totaled 10,287,046,
an increase of 3.4%, from 9,949,086 subscribers reported at the end
of last year. This consisted of 9,422,830 postpaid subscribers, an
increase of 3.9% from 9,069,887 subscribers at the end of 2022, and
864,216 prepaid subscribers, a decrease of 1.7% from 879,199 subscribers
at the end of 2022.
Mobile connected device net subscriber activations increased by
45.2% in 2023, compared to last year, due to lower net losses from
data devices, primarily fewer tablet deactivations, higher connected
car subscriptions and greater business IoT net activations.
Mobile connected device subscribers at December 31, 2023 totaled
2,732,548, an increase of 11.4% from 2,451,818 subscribers reported at
the end of 2022.

Wireline data

Retail high-speed Internet
2023

Retail net subscriber activations
Retail subscribers (1) (2) (3)

2022

Change

% change

187,126

201,762

(14,636)

(7.3%)

4,473,429

4,258,570

214,859

5.0%

Retail high-speed Internet net subscriber activations decreased by
7.3% in 2023, compared to 2022, due to greater deactivations in our
non-FTTP service footprint reflecting aggressive promotional offers
by competitors. This was partly offset by higher customer gross
activations driven by the ongoing expansion of our FTTP footprint, the
success of our bundled service offerings and multi-brand strategy, as
well as the contribution from Distributel and other small acquisitions
made during the year.

Retail high-speed Internet subscribers totaled 4,473,429 at December 31,
2023, up 5.0% from 4,258,570 subscribers reported at the end of
2022. In Q1 2023, our retail high-speed Internet subscriber base was
decreased by 7,347 subscribers, subsequent to a review of customer
account records. Additionally, in Q2 2023, our retail high-speed Internet
subscriber base increased by 35,080 as a result of small acquisitions.

Retail TV
Retail net subscriber (losses) activations

2023

2022

Change

(26,449)

5,148

(31,597)

n.m.

81,918

94,400

(12,482)

(13.2%)

IPTV

% change

(108,367)

(89,252)

(19,115)

(21.4%)

2,725,292

2,751,498

(26,206)

(1.0%)

IPTV (1) (2)

2,070,342

1,988,181

82,161

4.1%

Satellite

654,950

763,317

(108,367)

(14.2%)

Satellite
Total retail subscribers (1) (2)

Retail IPTV net subscriber activations decreased by 13.2% in 2023,
compared to 2022, driven by higher deactivations, primarily from our
app streaming service, mainly attributable to a greater number of
customers with expired promotional offers, as well as reflecting greater
competitive intensity and higher substitution with OTT services. This
was partly mitigated by increased activations from greater Internet
pull-through.
Retail satellite TV net subscriber losses increased by 21.4% in 2023,
compared to last year, attributable to aggressive offers from cable
competitors, particularly in rural areas, along with increased substitution
with OTT services.

5

n.m.: not meaningful
(1) In Q2 2023, our retail IPTV subscriber base increased by 243 as a result of small acquisitions.
(2) In Q4 2022, as a result of the acquisition of Distributel, our retail IPTV base increased by 2,315 subscribers.

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell CTS

(1) In Q2 2023, our retail high-speed Internet subscriber base increased by 35,080 as a result of small acquisitions.
(2) In Q1 2023, subsequent to a review of customer account records, our retail high-speed Internet subscriber base was reduced by 7,347 subscribers.
(3) In Q4 2022, as a result of the acquisition of Distributel, our retail high-speed Internet subscriber base increased by 128,065.

Total retail TV net subscriber losses (IPTV and satellite TV combined)
were unfavourable by 31,597 year over year, due to higher satellite TV
net losses, and lower IPTV net activations.
Retail IPTV subscribers at December 31, 2023 totaled 2,070,342, up
4.1% from 1,988,181 subscribers reported at the end of 2022. In Q2 2023,
our retail IPTV subscriber base increased by 243 as a result of small
acquisitions.
Retail satellite TV subscribers at December 31, 2023 totaled 654,950,
down 14.2% from 763,317 subscribers reported at the end of 2022.
Total retail TV subscribers (IPTV and satellite TV combined) at
December 31, 2023 were 2,725,292 decreasing by 1.0% over the
2,751,498 subscribers at the end of 2022. In Q2 2023, our retail IPTV
subscriber base increased by 243 as a result of small acquisitions.

Wireline voice
2023

2022

Change

Retail residential NAS lines net losses

(176,612)

(175,788)

(824)

% change

(0.5%)

Retail residential NAS lines (1) (2)

2,021,617

2,190,771

(169,154)

(7.7%)

(1) In Q2 2023, our retail residential NAS lines subscriber base increased by 7,458 subscribers as a result of small acquisitions.
(2) In Q4 2022, as a result of the acquisition of Distributel, our retail residential NAS lines subscriber base increased by 64,498 subscribers.

Retail residential NAS lines net losses increased by 0.5%, compared
to 2022, as the growth in gross activations was more than offset by
higher year-over-year deactivations, mainly due to lower deactivations
in Q1 2022 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the unfavourable
impact of continued substitution to wireless and Internet-based
technologies.

Retail residential NAS lines at December 31, 2023 of 2,021,617 declined by
7.7% from 2,190,771 lines reported at the end of 2022. In Q2 2023, our retail
residential NAS lines subscriber base increased by 7,458 subscribers
as a result of small acquisitions. The erosion in retail residential NAS
lines of 7.7% deteriorated over the 4.7% rate of erosion experienced
in 2022, mainly due to the impact of the acquisition of Distributel and
EBOX in 2022.

117

Competitive landscape and industry trends
This section contains forward-looking statements, including relating to our business outlook. Refer to the section Caution regarding forwardlooking statements at the beginning of this MD&A.

5

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell CTS

Competitive landscape

Wireless products and services

Wireline products and services

The Canadian wireless industry has experienced strong subscriber
growth in recent years, supported by immigration and population
growth, a continued increase in the rate of penetration in line with the
trend toward multiple devices, and the ongoing adoption of mobile
devices and services. With penetration rates in other developed nations
well above 100% (United States, Europe and Asia), the Canadian mobile
phone penetration rate is expected to continue to increase, above and
beyond the approximate rate of 91% for 2023.

The cable market changed in 2023 as Rogers completed its acquisition of
Shaw, creating a Canadian competitor with larger scale. An estimated
7.5 million Internet subscribers received their service over the networks
of the three largest cable companies at the end of 2023, relatively
unchanged from 2022. Meanwhile, an estimated 7.6 million Internet
subscribers received their service over the networks of incumbent
local exchange carriers (ILECs) like Bell at the end of 2023, compared to
approximately 7.2 million at the end of 2022. Bell continues to make gains
in market share as a result of the ongoing expansion of our FTTP direct
fibre network and increased customer penetration of bundled service
offerings. Our ongoing focus on FTTP and its superior characteristics
as compared to cable, such as higher and symmetrical download and
upload speeds, has allowed us to connect more than 7 million homes
and businesses in Ontario, Québec, the Atlantic provinces and Manitoba
to our pure fibre technology. Notably, Bell pure fibre Internet was
awarded fastest in Canada in Ookla’s Q1-Q2 and Q3-Q4 2023 Speedtest
Awards reports, with the reports also ranking Bell pure fibre Wi-Fi as
fastest in the country – both for the second time in a row. In addition, Bell
was named the Best Major & All Around ISP in PCMag’s Best ISPs 2023
Canada report. Bell recognitions also include BrandSpark’s Most Trusted
ISP 2023 and 2024.

In 2023, the Canadian wireless industry continued to experience
heightened levels of competition nationally, particularly within the flanker
brand environment. This competitive intensity has led to continued
declines in chargeable data usage and rising levels of data allocation
in monthly plans, including unlimited data plans, in addition to other
ongoing factors, such as the popularity of data sharing plans and an
evolving shift in the customer mix toward non-traditional mobile devices
and tools such as video chats. The roll-out of 5G network infrastructure
continued in 2023, with 5G coverage by the national carriers reaching
approximately 86% of the Canadian population at the end of 2023,
compared to approximately 80% at the end of 2022. For Bell, our long­
standing focus on network excellence is reflected in the recognition
we received from independent third-party sources in 2023, including
being recognized as Canada’s fastest and best 5G network by GWS
for the third consecutive year in its 2023 nationwide assessment of
5G networks. New this year, GWS’s testing included 3500 MHz network
wireless spectrum and determined Bell’s network (5G+) performance
to be the fastest and best in the country.
The Canadian wireless industry remains highly competitive and capitalintensive among facilities-based providers, as carriers continue to
expand and enhance their broadband wireless networks, including
the ongoing build-out of 5G, as well as making significant investments
in spectrum.

Competitors for wireless products and services

• Facilities-based national wireless service providers Rogers, the Telus

Corporation group of companies (Telus) and Québecor Inc. (Québecor)

• Regional facilities-based wireless service providers Saskatchewan
Telecommunications Holding Corporation, which provides service in
Saskatchewan; Bragg Communications Inc. (Eastlink), which provides
service in the three Maritime provinces

118

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

While Canadians still watch conventional TV, digital streaming platforms
are playing an increasingly important role in the broadcasting industry
and in the distribution of content. Popular online video services are
providing Canadians with more choice about where, when and how to
access video content. In 2023, ILECs offering IPTV service expanded their
subscriber base by an estimated 4% to reach 3.5 million customers, or
a 38% market share, up compared to approximately 34% at the end of
2022, through wider network coverage, enhanced differentiated services
and bundled offerings, and marketing and promotions focused on IPTV.
Canada’s three largest cable companies had an estimated 4.7 million TV
subscribers, or a 50% market share at the end of 2023, up compared
to 48% at the end of 2022. The balance of industry subscribers were
served by satellite TV and regional providers.
In recent years, two of the largest Canadian cable companies have
launched new TV services based on the Comcast X1 video platform
– Rogers (and previously Shaw prior to its acquisition by Rogers) and
Québecor’s Vidéotron brand. Our IPTV platform (Fibe TV, Fibe TV app
and Virgin Plus TV) continues to offer numerous service advantages
compared to this cable platform, including: flexible pricing plans and
packages available to all customers; picture clarity and quality; content
depth and breadth; the number of ways customers can access content,
including wireless set-top boxes, Restart TV, higher-capacity PVR and the
Fibe TV app. We continue to offer more on-demand content and more
OTT content with Crave, Netflix, Prime Video and YouTube all in one place.

services, including:

• Rogers in Ontario, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador,
and upon its acquisition of Shaw, in British Columbia, Alberta,
Saskatchewan and Manitoba
• Vidéotron in Québec
• Cogeco Cable Inc. (a subsidiary of Cogeco Inc.) (Cogeco) in Ontario
and Québec
• Shaw Direct, providing satellite TV service nationwide
• Eastlink in every province except Saskatchewan, where it does not
provide cable TV and Internet service

• Telus provides residential voice, Internet and IPTV services in British
Columbia, Alberta and Eastern Québec

• Telus and Allstream Inc. (Allstream) provide wholesale products and
business services across Canada

• Various others such as TekSavvy Solutions and Vonage Canada

(a division of Vonage Holdings Corp.) offer resale or VoIP-based local,
long distance and Internet services

• LEO satellite providers offering Internet services
• OTT voice and/or video services, such as Zoom, Skype, Netflix, Prime
Video, Disney+ and YouTube

• Digital media streaming devices such as Apple TV, Roku and Google
Chromecast

• Other Canadian ILECs and cable TV operators
• Substitution to wireless services, including those offered by Bell
• Customized managed outsourcing solutions competitors, such as
systems integrators CGI and IBM

• Wholesale competitors include cable operators, domestic competitive
local exchange carrier (CLEC)s, U.S. or other international carriers
for certain services, and electrical utility-based telecommunications
providers

• Competitors for home security range from local to national companies,
such as Telus, Rogers, Chubb Fire & Security and Stanley Security.
Competitors also include do-it-yourself security providers such as
Lorex and home automation service providers such as Ring, Nest
and Wyze.

Wireless products and services
Wireless growth continues to be driven by the ongoing increase in data
usage and adoption, including: higher- value smartphones, unlimited
data offerings, shared family data plans, and IoT devices. In addition,
consumers continue to replace wireline access services with wireless
access and related data services. These trends are expected to drive
the growing demand for wireless data services for the foreseeable
future, particularly as the industry continues to shift to 5G. Industry
ARPU is expected to continue moderating, compared to periods prior
to the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly now that the industry has
lapped the meaningful recovery in roaming revenues, which had fallen
during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, as a result of
increased competitive intensity, the industry continues to see greater
adoption of bring-your-own-device (BYOD) additions, resulting in
increased switching activity.
While LTE and LTE-A technologies increase download speeds, encourage
data usage and enhance the customer experience, growth in data
traffic poses challenges to mobile access technology. To better manage
this data traffic, Canadian providers continue to evolve their networks
and deploy spectrum to support the shift to 5G. ISED held its auction
of spectrum in the 3800 MHz band in the fourth quarter of 2023 and
announced an auction for millimetre wave (mmWave) spectrum; these
bands are important for the expansion of 5G networks.
IoT technologies connect communications-enabled devices via wireless
technologies, allowing them to exchange key information and share
processes. Advanced platforms and networks are already in place
in industries such as transportation and logistics, utilities and fleet
management, with deployment ongoing in other sectors, including
smart cities, manufacturing, retail, food services, consumer utilities, and
connected cars. These industries are adopting IoT solutions, combined
with other applications, to digitally transform their operations and
generate value from their connections. IoT presents a meaningful
opportunity for growth in wireless connectivity, which can deliver
services to customers more efficiently. IoT connectivity generally
has a lower ARPU when sold as a stand-alone service, but supports
both revenue and margin growth, since it often leads to the sale of
IoT applications or our other service offerings, enhancing customer
penetration. In 2023, we added 293,307 mobile connected devices,
bringing our mobile connected device subscriber base to more than
2.7 million, up 11% from 2022.

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell CTS

Competitors for wireline products and services

• Cable TV providers offering cable TV, Internet and cable telephony

Industry trends

5

The financial performance of the overall Canadian wireline
telecommunications market continues to be impacted by the ongoing
declines in legacy voice service revenues resulting from technological
substitution to wireless and OTT services, as well as by the ongoing
conversion to IP-based data services and networks by large business
customers. Canada’s three largest cable companies had an estimated
combined base of approximately 2.7 million telephony subscribers at
the end of 2023, representing a national residential market share of
approximately 41%, relatively flat compared to 2022. Telecommunications
companies had an estimated combined total of 3.3 million telephony
subscribers at the end of 2023, representing a market share of
approximately 50%, up compared to approximately 49% at the end
of 2022. Other non-facilities-based competitors also offer local and
long distance VoIP services and resell high-speed Internet services.

Wireline products and services
The wireline telecommunications market is expected to remain very
competitive in 2024. Although the residential high-speed internet market
is maturing, with a penetration rate of approximately 92% across Canada
at the end of 2023, subscriber growth is expected to continue over the
coming years. Technology substitution, including the growth of wireless
and VoIP services, is expected to continue to replace higher-margin
legacy voice revenues, while digital streaming services and other online
content providers are expected to impact current linear TV services. Bell
is an important provider of these substitution services and the decline
in this legacy business is continuing as expected.

119

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell CTS

5

The popularity of viewing TV and on-demand content anywhere,
particularly on handheld devices, is expected to continue to grow as
customers adopt services that enable them to view content on multiple
screens. Streaming media providers continue to enhance OTT and DTC
streaming services in order to compete for a share of viewership in
response to evolving viewing habits and consumer demand. TV providers
are monitoring OTT developments and seeking to adapt their content
and market strategies to compete with these non-traditional offerings.
We view OTT as an opportunity to add further capabilities to our linear
and on-demand assets, providing customers with flexible options to
choose the content they want and encouraging greater customer usage
of Bell’s high-speed Internet and wireless networks. In 2023, our Crave
streaming service expanded its DTC subscription offering with the
launch of ad-supported plans, giving customers a range of options to
access Crave’s lineup of premium content. And we are expanding the
reach of Crave in 2024 through our agreement with Amazon to make
Crave available on Prime Video Channels in Canada.
The Canadian ILECs continue to make significant capital investments in
broadband networks, with a focus on FTTP to maintain and enhance their
ability to support advanced IP-based services and higher broadband
speeds. Cable companies continue to evolve their cable networks with
DOCSIS-related bandwidth enhancements and node splitting. Although

In the business market, the convergence of IT and telecommunications,
facilitated by the ubiquity of IP, continues to shape the competitive
environment, with non-traditional providers increasingly blurring the
lines of competition and business models. Cable companies continue
to make investments to better compete in the highly contested small
and medium-sized business space. Telecommunications companies
like Bell are providing network-centric managed applications that
leverage their significant FTTP investments, while IT service providers
are bundling network connectivity with their proprietary software­
as-a-service (SaaS) offerings. The development of IP-based platforms,
which provide combined IP voice, data and video solutions, creates
potential cost efficiencies that compensate, in part, for reduced margins
resulting from the continuing shift from legacy to IP-based services. The
evolution of IT has created significant opportunities for our business
markets services, such as cloud, security and workflow automation
solutions, that can have a greater business impact than traditional
telecommunications services.

Business outlook and assumptions
This section contains forward-looking statements, including relating to our projected financial performance for 2024 and our business outlook,
objectives, plans and strategic priorities. Refer to the section Caution regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of this MD&A.

2024 outlook

Our outlook for 2024 takes into consideration the financial impact of our
strategic distribution partnership with Best Buy Canada that will result
in a decrease in largely consumer electronics related revenue from
Bell CTS results. The impact of this partnership on adjusted EBITDA will
not be material given relatively low margins for consumer electronics.
We are targeting revenue growth driven by continued subscriber
base expansion.
Wireless subscriber growth is expected to be supported by an ongoing
5G upgrade cycle, strong immigration levels and our continued focus
on multi-product cross sales. We are focused on increasing our market
share of national operators’ postpaid mobile phone net additions in a
disciplined and cost-conscious manner. We expect higher, but more
moderate, growth in ARPU driven by increased 5G subscriptions and
higher roaming revenue, partly offset by reduced data overage revenue
resulting from the continued adoption of unlimited plans. We will also
seek to achieve higher revenues from the flow-through of pricing
changes, as well as IoT services and applications.
Continued expansion of our retail Internet and IPTV subscriber bases is
expected to be supported by a broader FTTP service footprint together
with higher household penetration, further penetration of WHI access
technology in rural communities, further scaling of Bell’s app-based
live TV streaming services and the introduction of new products and
features. We will continue to focus on winning the home by leveraging
our symmetrical Internet speed advantage over cable, delivering the
best customer experience with our products, and driving greater
cross-sell penetration of higher value mobility and Internet households.

120

the platform increases speed in the near term and is cost-efficient, it
does not offer the advanced capabilities of FTTP over the longer term,
such as fast symmetrical upload and download speeds. At the end of
2023, approximately 6.5 million locations in Bell’s footprint had access
to multi-gigabit symmetrical speeds of 3 Gbps.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

In our business markets, we expect an improving financial performance
trajectory predicated on higher product sales and project spending
by large enterprise customers combined with wireless subscriber
growth. However, as large enterprise customers continue to look for
opportunities to leverage low-cost technologies to grow and transform
the workforce of the future and face increased uncertainty about future
economic conditions, spending on telecommunications services and
products is expected to be variable. In addition, ongoing customer
migrations from traditional technologies to IP-based systems and
demand for cheaper bandwidth alternatives will continue to impact
business markets’ results in 2024. We intend to seek to offset the
revenue decline from traditional legacy telecommunications services
by continuing to develop unique services and value enhancements to
improve the client experience through services such as cloud, security
and workforce automation solutions. Further, we intend to use marketing
initiatives and other customer-specific strategies with the objective
of slowing the pace of NAS erosion, while also investing in direct fibre
expansion, 5G and new solutions in key portfolios such as Internet,
private networks, voice and unified communications, cloud solutions,
security solutions, cloud-based contact centre, IoT and MEC. We will
also continue to focus on delivering network-centric managed and
professional services solutions to large and medium-sized businesses
that increase the value of connectivity services.

We expect the overall level of competitive intensity in our small and
medium-sized business markets to remain high, as cable operators and
other telecom competitors look to these customer segments as potential
growth opportunities. We also intend to expand key sales channels and
introduce service offerings that help drive innovative solutions and
value for our small and medium-sized customers by leveraging Bell’s
network assets, broadband fibre footprint and service capabilities to
expand our relationships with them.

• Improving wireless handset device availability in addition to stable

We are maintaining a sharp focus on our operating cost structure to
help offset pressures related to customer growth and retention, the
ongoing erosion of high-margin wireline voice and other legacy revenues,
and competitive repricing pressures in our residential, business and
wholesale markets. This, combined with further operating efficiencies
enabled by our direct fibre footprint, changes in consumer behaviour and
product innovation, digital adoption, product and service enhancements,
expanding self-serve capabilities, new call centre and digital investments,
other improvements to the customer service experience, management
workforce reductions including attrition and retirements, and lower
contracted rates from our suppliers, is expected to deliver meaningful
cost savings and productivity gains across the organization.

for mobility and Internet customers

net additions

• Increased competitive intensity and promotional activity across all
regions and market segments

• Ongoing expansion and deployment of 5G and 5G+ wireless networks,
offering competitive coverage and quality

• Continued diversification of our distribution strategy with a focus on
expanding DTC and online transactions

• Moderating growth in mobile phone blended ARPU, driven by growth in

5G subscriptions, and increased roaming revenue from the easing of
travel restrictions implemented as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic,
partly offset by reduced data overage revenue due, among others,
to the continued adoption of unlimited plans

within our wireline footprint, but at a slower pace than during any of
2020 to 2023

• Continued growth in retail Internet and IPTV subscribers
• Increasing wireless and Internet-based technological substitution
• Continued focus on the consumer household and bundled service offers
• Continued large business customer migration to IP-based systems
• Ongoing competitive repricing pressures in our business and wholesale
markets

• Continued competitive intensity in our small and medium-sized

business markets as cable operators and other telecommunications
competitors continue to intensify their focus on business customers

• Traditional high-margin product categories challenged by large
global cloud and OTT providers of business voice and data solutions
expanding into Canada with on-demand services

• Increasing customer adoption of OTT services resulting in downsizing
of TV packages

• Growing consumption of OTT TV services and on-demand video

streaming, as well as the proliferation of devices, such as tablets,
that consume large quantities of bandwidth, will require ongoing
capital investment

• Realization of cost savings related to operating efficiencies enabled by
our direct fibre footprint, changes in consumer behaviour and product
innovation, digital adoption, product and service enhancements,
expanding self-serve capabilities, new call centre and digital
investments, other improvements to the customer service experience,
management workforce reductions including attrition and retirements,
and lower contracted rates from our suppliers

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell CTS

• Increase our market share of national operators’ wireless mobile phone

• Further deployment of direct fibre to more homes and businesses

5

Assumptions

device pricing and margins

• No adverse material financial, operational or competitive consequences

of changes in or implementation of regulations affecting our
communication and technology services business

• Accelerating business customer adoption of advanced 5G, 5G+ and
IoT solutions

Key growth drivers

• Strong immigration levels
• A greater number of customers on our 5G and 5G+ networks
• Cross-sell to customers who do not have all their telecommunication

• Increasing FTTP and WTTP customer penetration
• Continued growth in retail Internet and IPTV subscribers
• Expansion of our business customer relationships to drive higher

• Further expansion of FTTP footprint, but at a slower pace than during

• Ongoing service innovation and product value enhancements

services with Bell

any of 2020 to 2023

revenue per customer

121

Principal business risks
This section discusses certain principal business risks specifically related to the Bell CTS segment. For a detailed description of the other principal
risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, refer to section 9, Business risks.

regulatory environment
Risk

• Increased regulation of wireless services, pricing and infrastructure,

such as additional mandated access to wireless networks, establishing
rates for mandated wireless services that are materially different from
the rates we propose, and limitations placed on future spectrum bidding

5

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell CTS

• The CRTC has mandated the establishment of an aggregated wholesale

high-speed access service available on FTTP facilities in Ontario and
Québec on an interim basis, and at rates that are materially lower
from the rates we proposed, and which do not sufficiently account
for the investment required in these facilities. The CRTC may maintain,
reverse or otherwise modify this new obligation when it concludes
its ongoing wholesale high-speed access review. This new service
materially improves the business position of our competitors. On
February 9, 2024, the Federal Court of Appeal granted Bell Canada
leave to appeal the CRTC decision but declined to grant the requested
stay of the decision pending resolution of its appeal. Bell Canada has
also filed an appeal to the Governor-in-Council.

• The courts could overturn the new wholesale rates the CRTC set for
aggregated high-speed access service in 2021, which were much
higher than the rates it had proposed in 2019

Potential impact

• Increased regulation could influence network investment and the
market structure, limit our flexibility, improve the business position of
our competitors, limit network-based differentiation of our services, and
negatively impact the financial performance of our Bell CTS segment

• In respect of the potential for new aggregated wholesale high-speed
access service available on FTTP facilities: (i) the mandating of final
rates that are materially different from the rates we proposed; (ii)
the risk that the wholesale FTTP obligation will only be imposed on
Bell Canada and not other providers or only in Ontario and Québec
while not available to Bell Canada in Western Canada, putting Bell
Canada at a competitive disadvantage where it could not access
wholesale FTTP out of its traditional territory, but its major competitors
could access Bell Canada’s FTTP facilities; and (iii) in the case of our
existing wholesale high-speed access service, the implementation
of the rates for aggregated or disaggregated wholesale high-speed
access services, could change our investment strategy, especially in
relation to investment in next-generation wireline networks in smaller
communities and rural areas, improve the business position of our
competitors, further accelerate penetration and disintermediation
by OTT players, and negatively impact the financial performance of
our business.

aggressive competition
Risk

• The intensity of competitive activity from national wireless operators,
smaller or regional facilities-based wireless service providers,
non-traditional players and resellers

• The intensity of competitive activity coupled with the proliferation of

installment and/or buy and pay later plans, and new wireline product
launches for residential customers (e.g., IoT, smart home systems
and devices, innovative TV platforms, etc.) and business customers
(e.g., OTT VoIP, collaboration and SD WAN solutions) from national
operators, non-traditional players and wholesalers, including the
expanded offering of retail services based on wholesale access by
large facilities-based competitors

Potential impact

• Pressure on our revenue, adjusted EBITDA, ARPU, cash flows and churn

would likely result if wireless competitors continue to aggressively
pursue new types of price plans, increase discounts, offer shared plans
based on sophisticated pricing requirements (e.g., installments) or offer
other incentives, such as cash-back for upgrade with old smartphone
and multi-product bundles, in order to attract new customers

• An increase in the intensity level of competitive activity for wireline

services could result in lost revenue, higher churn and increased
acquisition and retention expenses, all of which would put pressure
on Bell CTS’s adjusted EBITDA

Market environment, technological advancement
and changing customer behaviour
Risk

• Slower subscriber growth due to high Canadian Internet and

smartphone penetration, combined with potential pressures from
the economic environment and reduced discretionary spending, and
potential varying levels of immigration

• With technological advancement, the traditional TV viewing model (i.e.,
a subscription for bundled channels) is challenged by an increasing
number of legal and illegal viewing options available in the market
offered by traditional, non-traditional and global players, as well as
increasing cord-cutting and cord-shaving trends

• The proliferation of network technologies impacts business customers’
decision to migrate to OTT, VoIP and/or leverage SD WAN architecture

• Changing customer habits further contribute to the erosion of NAS lines
Potential impact

• A maturing wireline and wireless market could challenge subscriber
growth and the cost of subscriber acquisition and retention, putting
pressure on the financial performance of our business

• Our market penetration and number of TV subscribers could decline

as a result of innovative offerings by BDUs and an increasing number
of domestic and non-domestic unregulated OTT providers, as well as
a significant volume of content piracy

• The proliferation of IP-based products, including OTT content and

OTT software offerings directly to consumers, may accelerate the
disconnection of TV services or the reduction of TV spending, as well
as the reduction in business IT investments by customers

• The ongoing loss of NAS lines challenges our traditional voice revenues
and compels us to develop other service offerings

122

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

5.2 Bell Media
Financial performance analysis
2023 performance highlights

Bell Media

Bell Media

(in $ millions)

(in $ millions)

$3,254

$745

Adjusted EBITDA

$3,117

$697

(4.2%)
22

23

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell Media

Revenues

(6.4%)
22

23

Bell Media

Bell Media

Revenue mix

Revenue mix

(product)

(line of business)
Subscriber

Other

TV

4%

5%

40%
56%

Radio

8%

OOH

6%

8%

42%

53%
86%

2022

6%

5

Advertising

2023

86%

2022

2023

Bell Media results

revenues

External revenues
Inter-segment revenues
Bell Media operating revenues

Bell Media operating revenues decreased by 4.2% in 2023, compared
to last year, due to lower advertising revenues, partly offset by higher
subscriber revenues. Operating revenues reflected continued growth
from digital revenues (1) of 19% in 2023, which moderated the overall
year-over-year pressure in operating revenues.

• Advertising revenues declined by 8.6% in 2023, compared to last
year, due to lower demand from advertisers as a result of the
ongoing unfavourable economic conditions, which negatively impacted
revenues across our TV and radio platforms. TV advertising revenues, in
particular conventional TV revenues, were also unfavourably impacted
by the Writers Guild of America (WGA) and the Screen Actors Guild

2023

2022

$ change

2,776

2,904

(128)

% change

(4.4%)

341

350

(9)

(2.6%)

3,117

3,254

(137)

(4.2%)

and American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (SAG-AFTRA)
strikes, along with the unfavourable year-over-year impact on specialty
TV due to the benefit last year from the broadcast of the FIFA World
Cup Qatar 2022. The decline in advertising revenues was moderated
by growth in digital advertising revenues, mainly driven by increased
bookings from Bell Media’s SAM TV media sales tool.

• Subscriber revenues grew by 0.7% in 2023, compared to last year,
due to the continued growth in Crave and sports streaming DTC
subscribers, partly offset by the benefit last year from a retroactive
adjustment related to a contract with a Canadian TV distributor.

(1) Digital revenues are comprised of advertising revenue from digital platforms including web sites, mobile apps, connected TV apps and OOH digital assets/platforms, as well as advertising
procured through Bell digital buying platforms and subscription revenue from DTC services and VOD services.

123

operating costs and adjusted EBItda
2023

2022

$ change

Operating costs

(2,420)

(2,509)

89

3.5%

Adjusted EBITDA

697

745

(48)

(6.4%)

22.4%

22.9%

Adjusted EBITDA margin

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell Media

(0.5) pts

Bell Media operating costs decreased by 3.5% in 2023, compared to
last year, due to:

• Noovo had 3 out of the top 10 most watched regular shows on French

• Lower content and programming costs driven by content delays due

• Crave the most distributed Canadian-owned premium video streaming

to the WGA and SAG-AFTRA strikes, and higher 2022 costs related
to the broadcast of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, partly offset by
continued contractual increases in content costs

5

% change

• Cessation of the CRTC Part II broadcasting licence fee
• Reduced labour costs driven by restructuring initiatives undertaken as
a result of the unfavourable economic and broadcasting regulatory
environments

Bell Media adjusted EBITDA decreased by 6.4% in 2023, compared to
last year, due to lower operating revenues, partly offset by reduced
operating costs.

Bell Media operating metrics
• CTV maintained its #1 ranking as the most-watched network in Canada
for the 22nd year in a row among total viewers in primetime, with 10 of
the top 20 programs nationally among total viewers

• Bell Media maintained its leadership position in the specialty and pay TV

market with its English specialty and pay TV properties reaching 76%
of all Canadian English specialty and pay TV viewers in the average
week among key viewers aged 25 to 54 and with its French specialty
and pay TV properties reaching 53% of Québec French specialty and
pay TV viewers in an average week

conventional TV among viewers aged 25 to 54
service

• Bell Media continued to rank first in unique visitors, total page views

and total page minutes in digital media in 2023 among Canadian
broadcast and video network competitors. Bell Media also ranked
sixth among online properties in the country in terms of unique visitors
and reach, with an average of 23.5 million unique visitors per month,
reaching 72% of the digital audience in 2023.

• Bell Media remained Canada’s top radio broadcaster in 2023, and it had

the #1 and #2 musical radio station in the Montréal French-language
market for Fall 2023 among listeners aged 25 to 54

• Astral continues to be a leading OOH solution provider across Canada,

offering a range of six product lines: outdoor advertising, street
furniture, airport, digital large format, transit and indoor place-based.
Our products have the potential to reach over 13 million Canadians
weekly in 40 markets, and we offer exclusive advertising presence
including 6 of the top 15 airports and 2 of the top transit commissions
in Canada.

Competitive landscape and industry trends
This section contains forward-looking statements, including related to our business outlook. Refer to the section Caution regarding forwardlooking statements at the beginning of this MD&A.

Competitive landscape

Competition for content in the Canadian media industry continues to
be increasingly controlled by a small number of global competitors
with significant scale and financial resources. Technology has allowed
new entrants to become media players in their own right. Some players
have become more vertically integrated across both traditional and
emerging platforms to better enable the acquisition and monetization
of premium content. Global aggregators have also emerged and are
competing for both content and viewers.
Bell Media competes in the TV, radio, OOH advertising and digital media
markets:

• TV: The TV market has become increasingly fragmented and this trend
is expected to continue as new services and technologies increase
the diversity of information and entertainment outlets available to
consumers

• Radio: Competition within the radio broadcasting industry occurs
primarily in discrete local market areas among individual stations

• OOH: The Canadian OOH advertising industry is fragmented, consisting

of a few large companies as well as numerous smaller and local
companies operating in a few local markets

124

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

• Digital media: Consumer demand for digital media, content on mobile

devices, and on-demand content is increasing and media products
have experienced significant digital uptake, requiring industry players
to increase their efforts in digital content and capabilities in order
to compete. In response to this trend, advertisers are shifting their
spending to premium video and audio products on global digital
platforms and social media that enable marketers to narrowly target
specific audiences instead of the previous mass marketing approach.
This results in lower use of traditional advertising methods and requires
a shift in focus. Bell Media and other media companies have initiated
programs to sell their advertising inventory on a more targeted basis
through updated buying platforms with enhanced access to data and
are now selling their inventory on programmatic buying platforms.

In 2023, the Canadian advertising market continued to experience
a slowdown consistent with trends in the global advertising market.
Improvement is expected in the medium term, although visibility as to
the specific timing and pace of recovery remains limited.

and specialty and pay channels, such as those owned by Corus
Entertainment Inc. (Corus), Rogers, Québecor and Canadian
Broadcasting Corporation (CBC)/Société Radio-Canada

• U.S. conventional TV stations and specialty channels
• OTT streaming providers such as Netflix, Prime Video, Disney+, Apple
TV+, Paramount +, discovery+ and DAZN

• Video-sharing websites such as YouTube, TikTok and Instagram
Radio

• Large radio operators, such as Rogers, Corus, Cogeco and Stingray

Group Inc. that also own and operate radio station clusters in various
local markets

• Radio stations in specific local markets
• Satellite radio provider SiriusXM
• Music streaming services such as Spotify and Apple Music
• Music downloading services such as Apple’s iTunes Store
• Other media such as newspapers, local weeklies, TV, magazines,
outdoor advertising and the Internet

OOH advertising

• Large outdoor and indoor advertisers, such as Pattison Outdoor
Advertising, Allvision, Vendo, OUTFRONT Media (1), Québecor, Branded
City, REC Media, UB Media and Rouge Media (a division of Rogers
Sports & Media)

• Numerous smaller and local companies operating a limited number of
faces in a few local markets

• Other media such as TV, radio, print media and the Internet

Industry trends

Consumers continue to have access to an array of online entertainment
and information alternatives, with new options being added yearly. The
increase in alternative entertainment options has led to a fragmentation
in consumption habits. Traditional linear TV still delivers higher viewership
compared to other forms of video consumption, although the gap is
closing with more people consuming content from an assortment of
services and in a variety of formats. In particular, today’s viewers are

Premium video content remains vitally important to media companies in
attracting and retaining viewers and advertisers. This content, including
live sports and special events, should continue to draw audiences and
advertisers moving forward. Heightened competition for these rights
from global competitors, including Netflix, Prime Video, Disney+, DAZN
and Apple TV+, has already resulted in higher program rights costs and
may also make it more difficult to secure content.
Consumer behaviour is continually changing and media companies
are adjusting by evolving and personalizing their content and product
offerings. Media companies have launched their own solutions with the
objective of better competing with non-traditional offerings through
DTC products such as Bell Media’s bilingual Crave service, TSN and
RDS, all of which offer streaming on a variety of platforms. While the
SVOD model continues to dominate the streaming landscape, AVOD
and FAST services are seeing tremendous growth due to the appeal
to price-conscious consumers.

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell Media

TV

• Conventional Canadian TV stations (local and distant signals)

consuming more content online, watching less scheduled programming
live, time-shifting original broadcasts through PVRs, viewing more video
on mobile devices, and catching up on an expanded library of past
programming on-demand. While households use pure OTT services, such
as Crave, Netflix, Prime Video, Disney+ and Apple TV+, to complement
linear TV consumption, an increasing number are using these services as
alternatives to a traditional linear package. With the increase of options
in the alternative market, content is more widespread than ever before
across providers, resulting in a more competitive landscape. This has
resulted in price increases and consumers’ need to subscribe to more
than one service. The industry has responded with bundling options,
lower price ad tiers, and an increase in free, ad-supported streaming
television (FAST) channels, such as The Roku Channel, Tubi and Pluto TV.

5

Competitors

In addition, there has been a shift in how advertisers want to buy
advertising across all media platforms. The growth of digital consumption
has also given advertisers the opportunity to buy more targeted
inventory and to buy inventory via self-serve and programmatically. As
a result, Bell Media and other media companies have initiated programs
to sell their advertising inventory on a more targeted basis through
updated buying platforms with enhanced access to data and are now
selling their inventory on programmatic buying platforms.

Business outlook and assumptions
This section contains forward-looking statements, including relating to our projected financial performance for 2024 and our business outlook,
objectives, plans and strategic priorities. Refer to the section Caution regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of this MD&A.

2024 outlook

We are targeting positive media revenue growth in 2024. While the
advertising market continues to be adversely affected by economic
uncertainty, we expect a recovery in 2024, although visibility as to the
specific timing and pace of recovery remains limited. Subscriber revenue
is expected to reflect the non-recurrence of revenue adjustments in
2023, but moderated by BDU rate increases and continued scaling
of DTC products, such as Crave, including expanded distribution and
price increases. The effects of shifting media consumption towards

competing OTT and digital platforms, as well as further TV cord-shaving
and cord-cutting, are also expected to continue to negatively impact
subscriber volumes.
We remain focused on advancing our digital-first media strategy,
including growing digital revenues and DTC subscribers, and increasing
usage of our ad buying optimization platforms. We also intend to
continue controlling costs by achieving productivity gains and pursuing
operational efficiencies across all of our media properties, while
continuing to invest in premium content across all screens and platforms.

(1) On October 23, 2023, Bell Media announced it plans to acquire the Canadian out-of-home media business of OUTFRONT Media Inc. The transaction is valued at $410 million, subject to
certain adjustments, and is expected to close in the first half of 2024, subject to regulatory approval and other closing conditions.

125

5

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell Media

Across our media properties, particularly in TV, we intend to leverage
our market position combined with enhanced audience targeting to
offer advertisers, both nationally and locally, premium opportunities
to reach their target audiences. Success in this area requires that
we focus on successfully acquiring highly rated programming and
differentiated content; building and maintaining strategic supply
arrangements for content across all screens and platforms; and
producing and commissioning high-quality Canadian content, including
market-leading news. We will also continue scaling our SAM TV and
Bell DSP ad buying optimization platforms, which give customers the
ability to plan, activate and measure marketing campaigns using Bell’s
premium first-party data and expanding personalization of ad content
to TV and digital radio.
Our sports offerings are expected to continue to deliver popular content
and viewing experiences to our TV and DTC audiences. These offerings,
combined with the integration of our digital platforms, are integral parts
of our strategy to enhance viewership and engagement. We will also
continue to focus on creating innovative high-quality productions in
the areas of sports news and editorial coverage.

Assumptions

• Overall digital revenue expected to reflect continued scaling of our

SAM TV and DSP buying platforms, expansion of Addressable TV
(ATV), as well as DTC subscriber growth, contributing towards the
advancement of our digital-first media strategy

• Leveraging of first-party data to improve targeting, advertisement
delivery including personalized viewing experience and attribution

• Continued escalation of media content costs to secure quality
programming

In non-sports specialty TV, audiences and advertising revenues are
expected to be driven by investment in quality programming and
production.

• Continued scaling of Crave through optimized content offering, user

Through Crave, our bilingual premium video streaming service, we will
continue to leverage our investments in premium content (including
HBO, Max, STARZ and original French-language programming) in order
to attract pay TV and DTC subscribers. We intend to continue expanding
platform distribution and delivering user experience improvements.

digital platforms such as Crave, Noovo.ca and iHeartRadio, to better
serve our French-language customers through a personalized digital
experience

We will continue to support original French programming with a focus
on digital platforms such as Crave, Noovo.ca and iHeartRadio, to better
serve our French-language customers through a personalized digital
experience.
In radio, we intend to offer advertisers, both nationally and locally,
attractive opportunities to reach their target audiences. Additionally,
in conjunction with our TV properties, we will continue to pursue
opportunities that leverage our promotional capabilities, provide an
expanded platform for content sharing, and offer other synergistic
efficiencies.

126

In our OOH operations, we plan to provide advertisers with attractive
opportunities in key Canadian markets. We will also continue to seek
new opportunities to support the growing demand in digital, including
converting certain outdoor structures to digital and adding new boards.
Our proposed acquisition of the Canadian out-of-home media business
of OUTFRONT Media Inc., which is expected to close in the first half of
2024, subject to regulatory approval and other closing conditions, is
expected to support our digital media strategy and to deliver impactful,
multi-channel marketing solutions coast-to-coast.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

experience improvements and expanded distribution

• Continued support in original French programming with a focus on

• Ability to successfully acquire and produce highly-rated programming
and differentiated content

• Building and maintaining strategic supply arrangements for content
across all screens and platforms

• No adverse material financial, operational or competitive consequences

of changes in or implementation of regulations affecting our media
business

Key growth drivers

• Building out digital experiences and expanding distribution in order to
support audience growth and increase advertising inventory

• Monetization of Bell data through continued scaling of SAM TV and

• Ongoing growth in BDU rates
• Delivery of compelling content to maintain strength in audience
performance

Bell DSP buying platforms as well as expansion of Addressable TV
and Addressable Audio

Principal business risks
This section discusses certain principal business risks specifically related to the Bell Media segment. For a detailed description of the other
principal risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, refer to section 9, Business risks.

viewership, and traditional media is under increasing pressure for
advertising spend against dominant non-traditional/global digital
services

• The advertising market could be further impacted by cancelled
or delayed advertising campaigns from many sectors due to the
economic environment

• Bell Media has contracts with a variety of BDUs, under which monthly

subscription fees for specialty and pay TV services are earned, that
expire on a specific date

Potential impact

• Economic uncertainty could continue to impact advertisers’ spending.

Our failure to increase or maintain viewership or capture our share
of the changing and fragmented advertising market, including digital
revenues, could result in the loss of advertising revenue.

• If we are not successful in obtaining favourable agreements with
BDUs, it could result in the loss of subscription revenue

Risk

• The intensity of competitive activity from new technologies and

alternative distribution platforms such as unregulated OTT content
offerings, VOD, personal video platforms, DTC distribution and pirated
content, in addition to traditional TV services, in combination with the
development of more aggressive product and sales strategies by
non-traditional global players with a much larger scale

Potential impact

• Increased competitive activity in combination with the development of

more aggressive product and sales strategies could have an adverse
impact on the level of subscriptions and/or viewership for Bell Media’s
TV services and on Bell Media’s revenue streams

rising content costs and ability to secure key content
Risk

• Rising content costs, as an increasing number of domestic and global

MD&A Business segment analysis Bell Media

Risk

• Advertising is heavily dependent on economic conditions and

aggressive competition

5

advertising and subscription revenue uncertainty

competitors seek to acquire the same content or to restrict content
within their own ecosystems, and the ability to acquire or develop
key differentiated content to drive revenues and subscriber growth

Potential impact

• Rising programming costs could require us to incur unplanned
expenses, which could result in negative pressure on adjusted EBITDA

• Our inability to acquire or develop popular programming content could
adversely affect Bell Media’s viewership and subscription levels and,
consequently, advertising and subscription revenues

127

6 Financial and capital management
Our financial
resources
This section tells you how we manage our cash and capital resources to carry out our strategy and deliver financial results. It provides an
analysis of our financial condition, cash flows and liquidity on a consolidated basis.

6

MD&A Financial and capital management

6.1 Net debt
2023

2022

$ change

% change

Long-term debt

31,135

27,783

3,352

12.1%

Debt due within one year

5,042

4,137

905

21.9%

50% of preferred shares (1)

1,834

1,935

(101)

(5.2%)

Cash

(547)

(99)

(448)

n.m.

Cash equivalents

(225)

(50)

(175)

n.m.

Short-term investments

(1,000)

–

(1,000)

n.m.

Net debt

36,239

33,706

2,533

7.5%

n.m.: not meaningful
(1) 50% of outstanding preferred shares of $3,667 million and $3,870 million at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, are classified as debt consistent with the treatment
by some credit rating agencies.

The increase of $905 million in debt due within one year and
$3,352 million in long-term debt were due to:

• the issuance by Bell Canada of Series M-57, Series M-58, Series M-59,

Series M-60, Series M-61 and Series M-62 MTN debentures, with
total principal amounts of $300 million, $1,050 million, $450 million,
$600 million, $400 million and $700 million in Canadian dollars,
respectively

• the issuance by Bell Canada of Series US-8 Notes, with a total principal

amount of $850 million in U.S. dollars ($1,138 million in Canadian dollars)

• outstanding loans of $491 million under the Bell Mobility uncommitted
trade loan agreement

• a net increase of $374 million due to higher lease liabilities and other
debt

Partly offset by:

• a decrease in notes payable (net of issuances) of $646 million
• the repayment at maturity of Series M-29 MTN debentures, with a total
principal amount of $600 million

128

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

The increase in cash of $448 million, the increase in cash equivalents of
$175 million and the increase in short-term investments of $1,000 million
were mainly due to:

• $7,946 million of cash flows from operating activities
• $5,195 million of issuance of long-term debt
• $209 million from business dispositions
Partly offset by:

• $4,581 million of capital expenditures
• $3,486 million of dividends paid on BCE common shares
• $1,858 million of repayment of long-term debt
• $646 million decrease in notes payable (net of issuances)
• $223 million paid for the purchase on the open market of BCE common
shares for the settlement of share-based payments

• $222 million for business acquisitions
• $183 million for the purchase of spectrum licences
• $182 million of dividends paid on BCE preferred shares
• $149 million repurchase of a financial liability
• $140 million paid for the repurchase of BCE preferred shares

6.2 Outstanding share data
Common shares outstanding

Outstanding, January 1, 2023
Shares issued under deferred share plan

Number
of shares

911,982,866
843

Stock options outstanding

Number
of options

Weighted average
exercise price ($)

Outstanding, January 1, 2023

7,802,108

61

Exercised (1)

(306,139)

60

(11,408)

63

Shares issued under employee stock option plan

306,139

Forfeited or expired

Unclaimed shares (1)

(15,303)

Outstanding, December 31, 2023

7,484,561

61

912,274,545

Exercisable, December 31, 2023

7,484,561

61

Outstanding, December 31, 2023

(1) Represents unclaimed shares following the expiry of former Manitoba Telecom Services Inc.
(MTS) shareholders’ right to receive BCE common shares in connection with the acquisition
of MTS.

(1) The weighted average market share price for options exercised in 2023 was $63.

2023

2022

$ change

% change

Cash flows from operating activities

7,946

8,365

(419)

(5.0%)

Capital expenditures

(4,581)

(5,133)

552

10.8%

Cash dividends paid on preferred shares

(182)

(136)

(46)

(33.8%)

Cash dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interest

(47)

(39)

(8)

(20.5%)

8

10

(2)

(20.0%)

Acquisition and other costs paid
Free cash flow

3,144

3,067

77

2.5%

Business acquisitions

(222)

(429)

207

48.3%

Business dispositions

209

52

157

n.m.

(8)

(10)

2

20.0%

(1,000)

–

(1,000)

n.m.

(183)

(3)

(180)

n.m.

(4)

(4)

–

–

(646)

111

(757)

n.m.
(100.0%)

Acquisition and other costs paid
Short-term investments
Spectrum licences
Other investing activities
(Decrease) increase in notes payable

–

700

(700)

Issue of long-term debt

5,195

1,951

3,244

n.m.

Repayment of long-term debt

(1,858)

(2,023)

165

8.2%

Repurchase of a financial liability

(149)

–

(149)

n.m.

18

171

(153)

(89.5%)

Increase in securitized receivables

Issue of common shares
Purchase of shares for settlement of share-based payments

(223)

(255)

32

12.5%

Repurchase of preferred shares

(140)

(125)

(15)

(12.0%)

(3,486)

(3,312)

(174)

(5.3%)

Other financing activities

(24)

(31)

7

22.6%

Net increase (decrease) in cash

448

(190)

638

n.m.

Net increase in cash equivalents

175

50

125

n.m.

Cash dividends paid on common shares

6

6.3 Cash flows

MD&A Financial and capital management

At March 7, 2024, 912,275,388 common shares and 6,599,815 stock options were outstanding.

n.m.: not meaningful

129

Cash flows from operating activities and free cash flow
In 2023, BCE’s cash flows from operating activities decreased by
$419 million, compared to 2022, mainly due to lower cash from working
capital, in part from timing of supplier payments, and higher interest
paid, partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower contributions
to post-employment benefit plans.

Free cash flow increased by $77 million in 2023, compared to 2022,
mainly due to lower capital expenditures, partly offset by lower cash
flows from operating activities, excluding cash from acquisition and
other costs paid.

Capital expenditures
Bell CTS
Capital intensity
Bell Media
Capital intensity
BCE

6

MD&A Financial and capital management

Capital intensity

BCE capital expenditures of $4,581 million in 2023, declined 10.8% or
$552 million, compared to 2022, with a corresponding capital intensity
ratio of 18.6%, down 2.6 pts over last year. The decline was driven by
lower capital expenditures in our Bell CTS segment of $550 million
as a result of lower planned capital spending in 2023 subsequent to

2023

2022

$ change

4,421

4,971

550

20.2%

23.3%

160

162

5.1%

5.0%

4,581

5,133

18.6%

21.2%

% change

11.1%
3.1 pts

2

1.2%
(0.1) pts

552

10.8%
2.6 pts

accelerated network investments in 2022, as well as an unplanned
additional $105 million decrease in Q4 2023 as a result of the CRTC’s
decision in November 2023 to mandate wholesale access to Bell’s FTTP
network. We continued to focus our investments in 2023 on the further
expansion of our FTTP and mobile 5G networks.

Business acquisitions
On June 1, 2023, Bell acquired FX Innovation, a Montréal-based provider
of cloud-focused managed and professional services and workflow
automation solutions for business clients, for cash consideration of
$157 million ($156 million net of cash acquired), of which $12 million is
payable within two years, and an estimated $6 million of additional cash
consideration contingent on the achievement of certain performance
objectives. This contingent consideration is expected to be settled
by 2027 and the maximum amount payable is $7 million. Contingent
consideration is estimated to be nil at December 31, 2023.
On December 1, 2022, Bell acquired Distributel, a national independent
communications provider offering a wide range of consumer, business
and wholesale communications services, for cash consideration of

$303 million ($282 million net of cash acquired) and $39 million of
estimated additional cash consideration contingent on the achievement
of certain performance objectives. This contingent consideration
was expected to be settled by 2026 and the maximum contingent
consideration payable was $65 million. Contingent consideration is
estimated to be $49 million at December 31, 2023 of which $19 million was
paid in 2023. The remaining $30 million is expected to be paid in 2024.
In February 2022, Bell acquired EBOX and other related companies,
which provide Internet, telephone and TV services to consumers and
businesses in Québec and parts of Ontario, for cash consideration of
$153 million ($139 million net of cash acquired).

Business dispositions
On May 3, 2023, we completed the sale of our 63% ownership in certain production studios, which were included in our Bell Media segment for
net cash proceeds of $211 million.
On March 1, 2022, we completed the sale of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Createch for cash proceeds of $54 million.

Spectrum licences
On May 19, 2023, after approval from ISED, Bell Mobility obtained the right to use, through subordination, certain of Xplore Inc.’s 3500 megahertz
spectrum licences in Québec, for $145 million.

130

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Debt instruments
We use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance our operations. Our short-term debt consists mostly of notes payable
under commercial paper programs, loans securitized by receivables and wireless device financing plan receivables, and bank facilities. We
usually pay fixed rates of interest on our long-term debt and floating rates on our short-term debt. As at December 31, 2023, all of our debt
was denominated in Canadian dollars with the exception of our commercial paper, Bell Mobility trade loans and Series US-1, US-2, US-3, US-4,
US-5, US-6, US-7 and US-8 Notes, which are denominated in U.S. dollars and have been hedged for foreign currency fluctuations with cross
currency interest rate swaps.

2023

2022

• $5,195 million issuance of long-term debt comprised of the issuance
of Series M-57, Series M-58, Series M-59, Series M-60, Series
M-61 and Series M-62 MTN debentures, with total principal amounts
of $300 million, $1,050 million, $450 million, $600 million, $400 million
and $700 million in Canadian dollars, respectively, the issuance of
Series US-8 Notes, with a total principal amount of $850 million in U.S.
dollars ($1,138 million in Canadian dollars), the increase of $491 million
in outstanding loans under the Bell Mobility uncommitted trade loan
agreement and the issuance of other debt of $75 million, partly offset
by $8 million of discounts on our debt issuances

• $1,951 million issuance of long-term debt comprised of the issuance of

• $1,258 million repayment of long-term debt comprised of net payments
of leases and other debt

• $646 million repayment (net of issuances) of notes payable
• $600 million repayment of Series M-29 MTN debentures

Series M-57 MTN debentures with a total principal amount of $1 billion
in Canadian dollars and the issuance of Series US-7 Notes, with a
total principal amount of $750 million in U.S. dollars ($954 million in
Canadian dollars), partly offset by $3 million mainly related to discounts
on our debt issuances

• $700 million increase in securitized receivables
• $111 million issuance (net of repayments) of notes payable
Partly offset by:

• $2,023 million repayment of long-term debt comprised of the early

redemption of Series M-26 MTN debentures with a total principal
amount of $1 billion in Canadian dollars, and net payments of leases
and other debt of $1,023 million

Consolidation of MLSE ownership under BCE (repurchase of a financial liability)
In January 2023, BCE repurchased the 9% interest held by the BCE Master Trust Fund (Master Trust Fund), a trust fund that holds pension fund
investments serving the pension obligations of the BCE group pension plan participants, in MLSE for a cash consideration of $149 million, as a
result of BCE’s obligation to repurchase the Master Trust Fund’s interest in MLSE at that price.

MD&A Financial and capital management

Partly offset by:

During 2022, we issued debt, net of repayments. This included:

6

During 2023, we issued debt, net of repayments. This included:

Issuance of common shares
The issuance of common shares in 2023 decreased by $153 million, compared to 2022, mainly due to a lower number of exercised stock options.

Repurchase of preferred shares
In 2023, BCE repurchased and canceled 8,124,533 First Preferred Shares under its normal course issuer bid (NCIB) for a total cost of $140 million.
Subsequent to year end, BCE repurchased and canceled 1,412,388 First Preferred Shares for a total cost of $25 million.
In 2022, BCE repurchased and canceled 584,300 First Preferred Shares for a total cost of $10 million.
In Q1 2022, BCE redeemed its 4,600,000 issued and outstanding Cumulative Redeemable First Preferred Shares, Series AO for a total cost of
$115 million.

Cash dividends paid on common shares
In 2023, cash dividends paid on common shares of $3,486 million increased by $174 million, compared to 2022, due to a higher dividend paid
in 2023 of $3.8225 per common share, compared to $3.6350 per common share in 2022.

6.4 Post-employment benefit plans
For the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded a decrease in
our post-employment benefit plans and a loss, before taxes, in OCI of
$553 million. This was due to a lower actual discount rate of 4.6% at
December 31, 2023, compared to 5.3% at December 31, 2022, partly
offset by a gain on plan assets, experience gains and a decrease in
the effect of the asset limit.

For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded an increase in
our post-employment benefit plans and a gain, before taxes, in OCI
of $566 million. This was due to a higher actual discount rate of 5.3%
at December 31, 2022, compared to 3.2% at December 31, 2021, partly
offset by a loss on plan assets, experience losses and an increase in
the effect of the asset limit.
131

6.5 Financial risk management
Management’s objectives are to protect BCE and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis against material economic exposures and variability
of results from various financial risks, including credit risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk , equity price risk and longevity
risk. These risks are further described in Note 2, Material accounting policies, Note 9, Other expense, Note 27, Post-employment benefit plans
and Note 29, Financial and capital management in BCE’s 2023 consolidated financial statements.

6

MD&A Financial and capital management

The following table outlines our financial risks, how we manage these risks and their financial statement classification.
Financial risk

Description of risk

Management of risk and financial statement classification

Credit risk

We are exposed to credit risk from operating
activities and certain financing activities, the
maximum exposure of which is represented by
the carrying amounts reported in the statements
of financial position. We are exposed to credit
risk if counterparties to our receivables, including
wireless device financing plan receivables, and
derivative instruments are unable to meet
their obligations.

• Large and diverse customer base
• Deal with institutions with investment-grade credit ratings
• Regularly monitor our credit risk and credit exposure, and consider, among other
factors, the effects of changes in interest rates and inflation

• Our trade receivables and allowance for doubtful accounts balances at December 31,
2023, which both include the current portion of wireless device financing plan
receivables, were $3,959 million and $118 million, respectively

• Our non-current wireless device financing plan receivables and allowance for

doubtful accounts balances at December 31, 2023 were $401 million and $15 million,
respectively

• Our contract assets balance at December 31, 2023 was $735 million, net of an
allowance for doubtful accounts balance of $18 million

Liquidity risk

We are exposed to liquidity risk for financial
liabilities.

• Our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, amounts available under our

securitized receivables program, cash flows from operations and possible capital
markets financing are expected to be sufficient to fund our operations and fulfill our
obligations as they become due. Should our cash requirements exceed the above
sources of cash, we would expect to cover such a shortfall by drawing on existing
committed bank facilities and new ones, to the extent available

• Refer to section 6.7, Liquidity – Contractual obligations, for a maturity analysis of our
recognized financial liabilities

Foreign
currency risk

We are exposed to foreign currency risk related to
anticipated purchases and certain foreign currency
debt.
A 10% depreciation (appreciation) in the value of
the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar would
result in a gain of $28 million (loss of $100 million)
recognized in net earnings at December 31, 2023
and a gain of $124 million (loss of $123 million)
recognized in Other comprehensive (loss) income
at December 31, 2023, with all other variables
held constant.
A 10% depreciation (appreciation) in the value
of the Canadian dollar relative to the Philippine
peso would result in a gain (loss) of $5 million
recognized in Other comprehensive (loss) income
at December 31, 2023, with all other variables
held constant.
Refer to the following Fair value section for details
on our derivative financial instruments.

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts

and options maturing from 2024 to 2025 of $4.6 billion in U.S. dollars ($5.9 billion in
Canadian dollars) and ₱2.9 billion in Philippine pesos ($69 million in Canadian dollars),
to manage foreign currency risk related to anticipated purchases and certain foreign
currency debt
• For cash flow hedges relating to anticipated purchases denominated in
foreign currencies, changes in the fair value are recognized in our statements
of comprehensive income, except for any ineffective portion of the hedging
relationship, which is recognized in Other expense in the income statements.
Realized gains and losses in Accumulated OCI are reclassified to the income
statements or to the initial cost of the related non-financial asset in the same
periods as the corresponding hedged transactions are recognized.
• For cash flow hedges relating to our U.S. dollar debt under our commercial paper
program, securitization of receivables program and committed credit facilities,
changes in the fair value are recognized in Other expense in the income statements
and offset the foreign currency translation adjustment on the related debt, except
for any portion of the hedging relationship which is ineffective
• For economic hedges, changes in the fair value are recognized in Other expense
in the income statements

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding cross currency interest rate swaps with

notional amounts of $5,100 million in U.S. dollars ($6,603 million in Canadian dollars)
to hedge the U.S. currency exposure of our U.S. Notes maturing from 2032 to 2052

• For these cross currency interest rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these
derivatives are recognized in our statements of comprehensive income, except for
amounts recorded in Other expense in the income statements to offset the foreign
currency translation adjustment on the related debt and any portion of the hedging
relationship which is ineffective

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding cross currency interest rate swaps with

a notional amount of $360 million in U.S. dollars ($491 million in Canadian dollars) to
hedge the U.S. currency exposure of outstanding loans maturing in 2025 under our
Bell Mobility trade loan agreement
• For these cross currency interest rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these
derivatives are recognized in our statements of comprehensive income, except for
amounts recorded in Other expense in the income statements to offset the foreign
currency translation adjustment on the related debt and any portion of the hedging
relationship which is ineffective

132

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Financial risk

Description of risk

Management of risk and financial statement classification

Interest
rate risk

We are exposed to risk on the interest rates of
our debt, our post-employment benefit plans and
on dividend rate resets on our preferred shares.

• We use interest rate swaps, cross currency basis rate swaps, cross currency interest

Refer to the following Fair value section for details
on our derivative financial instruments.

a notional amount of $600 million in U.S. dollars ($748 million in Canadian dollars) to
hedge the interest exposure of our U.S. Notes maturing in 2024

• For these cross currency interest rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these
derivatives and the related debt are recognized in Other expense in the income
statements and offset each other, except for any ineffective portion of the hedging
relationship

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding interest rate swaps with a notional amount
of $625 million which will mature in 2027 and have been designated to hedge the fair
value of our Series M-53 MTN debentures
• For interest rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these derivatives and the
related debt are recognized in Other expense in the income statements and offset
each other, except for any ineffective portion of the hedging relationship

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding forward starting interest rate swaps,

effective 2024, with a notional amount of $700 million which will mature in 2029 and
have been designated to hedge the fair value of our Series M-62 MTN debentures

• For forward starting interest rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these
derivatives and the related debt are recognized in Other expense in the income
statements and offset each other, except for any ineffective portion of the hedging
relationship

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding interest rate swaps with a notional amount of

$500 million to hedge the fair value of our series M-52 MTN debentures maturing in 2030
• For interest rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these derivatives and the
related debt are recognized in Other expense in the income statements and offset
each other, except for any ineffective portion of the hedging relationship

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding interest rate swaps with a notional amount of

$500 million to hedge the fair value of our series M-57 MTN debentures maturing in 2032
• For interest rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these derivatives and the
related debt are recognized in Other expense in the income statements and offset
each other, except for any ineffective portion of the hedging relationship

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding forward starting interest rate swaps,

MD&A Financial and capital management

A 0.1% increase (decrease) in cross currency basis
swap rates would result in a gain (loss) of $11 million
recognized in net earnings at December 31, 2023,
with all other variables held constant.

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding cross currency interest rate swaps with

6

A 1% increase (decrease) in interest rates would
result in a loss (gain) of $26 million recognized in
net earnings at December 31, 2023, with all other
variables held constant.

rate swaps, forward starting interest rate swaps, and amortizing interest rate swaps
to hedge interest rate exposure on existing and/or future debt issuances. We also use
leveraged interest rate options to hedge economically the dividend rate resets on
preferred shares.

effective from 2028 with a notional amount of $125 million to hedge the fair value
of our series M-59 MTN debentures maturing in 2053

• For forward starting interest rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these
derivatives and the related debt are recognized in Other expense in the income
statements and offset each other, except for any ineffective portion of the hedging
relationship

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding forward starting interest rate swaps,

effective from 2028 with a notional amount of $400 million to hedge the fair value
of our series M-61 MTN debentures maturing in 2053

• For forward starting interest rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these
derivatives and the related debt are recognized in Other expense in the income
statements and offset each other, except for any ineffective portion of the hedging
relationship

• At December 31, 2023, we had an outstanding amortizing interest rate swap with

a notional amount of $197 million to hedge the interest rate exposure on other debt
maturing in 2028

• For amortizing interest rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these derivatives
are recognized in our statements of comprehensive income

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding cross currency basis rate swaps maturing
in 2024 with a notional amount of $644 million to hedge economically the basis rate
exposure on future debt issuances

• For these cross currency basis rate swaps, changes in the fair value of these
derivatives are recognized in the income statements in Other expense

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding leveraged interest rate options with a

fair value of nil to hedge economically the dividend rate resets on $582 million of our
preferred shares which had varying reset dates in 2021 for the periods ending in 2026
• For leveraged interest rate options, changes in the fair value of these derivatives
are recognized in the income statements in Other expense

• For our post-employment benefit plans, the interest rate risk is managed using
a liability matching approach, which reduces the exposure of the DB plans to a
mismatch between investment growth and obligation growth

133

Financial risk

Description of risk

Management of risk and financial statement classification

Equity
price risk

We are exposed to risk on our cash flow related
to the settlement of equity settled share-based
payment plans.

• At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding equity forward contracts with a fair

A 5% increase (decrease) in the market price of
BCE’s common shares would result in a gain (loss) of
$29 million recognized in net earnings at December 31,
2023, with all other variables held constant.

value net liability of $162 million on BCE’s common shares to economically hedge
the cash flow exposure related to the settlement of equity settled share-based
compensation plans
• Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in the income statements
in Other expense

Refer to the following Fair value section for details
on our derivative financial instruments.
Longevity
risk

We are exposed to life expectancy risk on our
post-employment benefit plans.

• The Bell Canada Pension Plan has an investment arrangement which hedges part of

its exposure to potential increases in longevity, which covers approximately $3 billion
of post-employment benefit obligations

6

MD&A Financial and capital management

Fair value
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
at the measurement date.
Certain fair value estimates are affected by assumptions we make about
the amount and timing of future cash flows and discount rates, all of
which reflect varying degrees of risk. Income taxes and other expenses
that may be incurred on disposition of financial instruments are not
reflected in the fair values. As a result, the fair values may not be the
net amounts that would be realized if these instruments were settled.

The carrying values of our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments,
trade and other receivables, trade payables and other liabilities, interest
payable, dividends payable, notes payable and loans secured by
receivables approximate fair value as they are short-term. The carrying
value of wireless device financing plan receivables approximates
fair value given that their average remaining duration is short and
the carrying value is reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts
and an allowance for revenue adjustments. The carrying value of the
Bell Mobility trade loans approximates fair value given their average
remaining duration is short and they bear interest at a variable rate.

The following table provides the fair value details of other financial instruments measured at amortized cost in the statements of financial position.

Debt securities
and other debt

December 31, 2023

december 31, 2022

Fair
value

Carrying
value

Fair
value

28,225

25,061

23,026

Classification

Fair value methodology

Carrying
value

Debt due within one year
and long-term debt

Quoted market price of debt

29,049

The following table provides the fair value details of financial instruments measured at fair value in the statements of financial position.
Fair value

Classification

Carrying value of
asset (liability)

Quoted prices in
active markets for
identical assets
(level 1)

observable
market data
(level 2) (1)

non-observable
market inputs
(level 3) (2)

December 31, 2023
Publicly-traded and privately-held
investments (3)

Other non-current assets

587

10

–

577

Derivative financial instruments

Other current assets, trade payables
and other liabilities, other non-current
assets and liabilities

(488)

–

(488)

–

Other

Other non-current assets and liabilities

147

–

216

(69)

Publicly-traded and privately-held
investments (3)

Other non-current assets

215

9

–

206

Derivative financial instruments

Other current assets, trade payables
and other liabilities, other non-current
assets and liabilities

72

–

72

–

MLSE financial liability (4)

Trade payables and other liabilities

(149)

–

–

(149)

Other

Other non-current assets and liabilities

108

–

184

(76)

December 31, 2022

(1) Observable market data such as equity prices, interest rates, swap rate curves and foreign currency exchange rates.
(2) Non-observable market inputs such as discounted cash flows and revenue and earnings multiples. For certain privately-held investments, changes in our valuation assumption relating
to revenue and earnings multiples may result in a significant increase (decrease) in the fair value of our level 3 financial instruments.
(3) Unrealized gains and losses are recorded in OCI in the statements of comprehensive income and are reclassified from Accumulated OCI to the deficit in the statements of financial position
when realized.
(4) Represented BCE’s obligation to repurchase the Master Trust Fund’s 9% interest in MLSE at a price not less than an agreed minimum price. In January 2023, BCE repurchased the interest
in MLSE held by the Master Trust Fund for a cash consideration of $149 million.

134

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

6.6 Credit ratings
Credit ratings generally address the ability of a company to repay
principal and pay interest on debt or dividends on issued and outstanding
preferred shares.
Our ability to raise financing depends on our ability to access the
public equity and debt capital markets, the money market, as well as
the bank credit market. Our ability to access such markets and the
cost and amount of funding available partly depend on our assigned

credit ratings at the time capital is raised. Investment grade credit
ratings usually mean that when we borrow money, we can obtain lower
interest rates than companies that have ratings lower than investment
grade. A ratings downgrade could result in adverse consequences for
our funding cost and capacity, and our ability to access the capital
markets, the money market and/or bank credit market.

The following table provides BCE’s and Bell Canada’s credit ratings, which are considered investment grade, as at March 7, 2024 from DBRS,
Moody’s and S&P.

Key credit ratings
dBrS

Moody’s

S&p

Commercial paper

R-2 (high)

P-2

A-1 (Low) (Canadian scale)

Long-term debt

BBB (high)

Baa1

BBB+

Subordinated long-term debt

BBB (low)

Baa2

BBB

dBrS

Moody’s

S&p

Pfd-3

–

P-2 (Low) (Canadian scale)

A-2 (Global scale)

BCE (1)

Preferred shares

BBB- (Global scale)
(1) These credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of the securities referred to, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the assigning rating agency.
Ratings are determined by the rating agencies based on criteria established from time to time by them, and they do not comment on market price or suitability for a particular investor.
Each credit rating should be evaluated independently of any other credit rating.

6

As of March 7, 2024, BCE’s and Bell Canada’s credit ratings have stable outlooks from DBRS, Moody’s and S&P.

MD&A Financial and capital management

Bell Canada (1)
March 7, 2024

6.7 Liquidity
This section contains forward-looking statements, including relating to our anticipated capital expenditures, our expected post-employment
benefit plans funding, and the sources of liquidity we expect to use to meet our 2024 cash requirements. Refer to the section Caution regarding
forward-looking statements at the beginning of this MD&A.

Available liquidity
Total available liquidity at December 31, 2023 was $5.8 billion, comprised
of $547 million in cash, $225 million in cash equivalents, $1,000 million
in short-term investments, $700 million available under our securitized
receivables program and $3.3 billion available under our $3.5 billion
committed revolving and expansion credit facilities (given $197 million
of commercial paper outstanding).
We expect that our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments,
amounts available under our securitized receivables program, cash flows
from operations and possible capital markets financing will permit us
to meet our cash requirements in 2024 for capital expenditures, postemployment benefit plans funding, dividend payments, the payment of
contractual obligations, maturing debt, ongoing operations and other
cash requirements.
Should our 2024 cash requirements exceed our cash, cash equivalents,
short-term investments, cash generated from our operations, and funds
raised under capital markets financings and our securitized receivables
program, we would expect to cover such a shortfall by drawing under
committed credit facilities that are currently in place or through new
facilities to the extent available.

In 2024, our cash flows from operations, cash, cash equivalents,
short-term investments, capital markets financings, securitized
receivables program and credit facilities should give us flexibility
in carrying out our plans for business growth, including business
acquisitions, as well as for the payment of contingencies.
We continuously monitor our operations, capital markets and the
Canadian economy with the objective of maintaining adequate liquidity.

Securitization program

In 2022, we entered into a new securitization program which replaced
our previous securitized trade receivables program and now includes
wireless device financing plan receivables. As a result, the maximum
amount available under our securitization program increased from
$1.3 billion at December 31, 2021 to $2.3 billion at December 31, 2022.
In 2023, we amended our securitization program to add sustainabilitylinked pricing. The amendment introduces a financing cost that varies
based on our performance of certain sustainability performance targets.

135

The securitization program is recorded as a floating rate revolving loan
secured by certain receivables. We continue to service trade receivables
and wireless device financing plan receivables under the securitization
program, which matures in July 2025 unless previously terminated.
The lenders’ interest in the collection of these receivables ranks ahead
of our interests, which means that we are exposed to certain risks of
default on the amounts securitized.
We have provided various credit enhancements in the form of
overcollateralization and subordination of our retained interests.

The lenders have no further claim on our other assets if customers do
not pay the amounts owed.
As of December 31, 2023, the balance of loans secured by receivables
was $1.2 billion in U.S. dollars ($1.6 billion in Canadian dollars) and
the total receivable balance collateralized under the program was
$3.3 billion. The foreign currency risk on these loans is managed using
foreign currency forward contracts. See section 6.5, Financial risk
management in this MD&A for additional details.

Credit facilities

The table below is a summary of our total bank credit facilities at December 31, 2023.
december 31, 2023

Total
available

Drawn

Letters
of credit

Commercial paper
outstanding

Net
available

Committed credit facilities
3,500

–

–

197

3,303

Unsecured non-revolving credit facilities (3)

641

–

–

–

641

Other

106

–

81

–

25

4,247

–

81

197

3,969

6

MD&A Financial and capital management

Unsecured revolving and expansion credit facilities (1) (2)

Total committed credit facilities
Non-committed credit facilities
Bell Canada

2,159

–

862

–

1,297

Bell Mobility

794

476

–

–

318

Total non-committed credit facilities

2,953

476

862

–

1,615

Total committed and non-committed credit facilities

7,200

476

943

197

5,584

(1) Bell Canada’s $2.5 billion committed revolving credit facility expires in May 2028 and its $1 billion committed expansion credit facility expires in May 2026. In 2022, Bell Canada converted
its committed credit facilities into a sustainability-linked loan. The amendment introduces a borrowing cost that varies based on our performance of certain sustainability performance
targets.
(2) As of December 31, 2023, Bell Canada’s outstanding commercial paper included $149 million in U.S. dollars ($197 million in Canadian dollars). All of Bell Canada’s commercial paper outstanding
is included in Debt due within one year.
(3) In 2022, Bell Canada entered into two 30-year senior unsecured non-revolving credit facilities in the aggregate principal amount of up to $647 million to partly fund the expansion of its
broadband networks as part of government subsidy programs. In 2023, the maximum aggregate principal amount of such credit facilities was decreased to $641 million.

Bell Canada may issue notes under its Canadian and U.S. commercial
paper programs up to the maximum aggregate principal amount of
$3 billion in either Canadian or U.S. currency provided that at no time
shall such maximum amount of notes exceed $3.5 billion in Canadian
currency, which equals the aggregate amount available under Bell
Canada’s committed supporting revolving and expansion credit facilities
as at December 31, 2023. The total amount of the net available committed
revolving and expansion credit facilities may be drawn at any time.
In 2023, Bell Mobility entered into a $600 million U.S. dollar uncommitted
trade loan agreement to finance certain purchase obligations. Loan

requests may be made until April 30, 2024, with each loan having a
term of up to 24 months. The loan agreement has been hedged for
foreign currency fluctuations.
Some of our credit agreements require us to meet specific financial
ratios and to offer to repay and cancel the credit agreement upon a
change of control of BCE or Bell Canada. In addition, some of our debt
agreements require us to make an offer to repurchase certain series
of debt securities upon the occurrence of a change of control event as
defined in the relevant debt agreements. We are in compliance with all
conditions and restrictions under such agreements.

Cash requirements
Capital expenditures

from valuations of our plan assets and liabilities, depend on a number
of factors, including actual returns on post-employment benefit plan
assets, long-term interest rates, plan demographics, and applicable
regulations and actuarial standards. Actuarial valuations were last
performed for our significant post-employment benefit plans as at
December 31, 2022.

Post-employment benefit plans funding

We expect to contribute approximately $45 million to our DB pension
plans in 2024, subject to actuarial valuations being completed. We expect
to contribute approximately $10 million to the DC pension plans and to
pay approximately $60 million to beneficiaries under OPEB plans in 2024.

In 2024, our planned capital spending will be focused on our strategic
imperatives, reflecting an appropriate level of investment in our networks
and services with a rollback of our fibre network expansion as a result
of federal government policies and the CRTC’s decision in November
2023 to mandate wholesale access to Bell’s FTTP network.

Our post-employment benefit plans include DB pension and DC pension
plans, as well as other post-employment benefits (OPEBs) plans. The
funding requirements of our post-employment benefit plans, resulting

136

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Dividend payments

In 2024, the cash dividends to be paid on BCE’s common shares are expected to be higher than in 2023 as BCE’s annual common share dividend
increased by 3.1% to $3.99 per common share from $3.87 per common share effective with the dividend payable on April 15, 2024. The declaration
of dividends is subject to the discretion of the BCE Board.

Contractual obligations

The following table is a summary of our contractual obligations at December 31, 2023 that are due in each of the next five years and thereafter.
at december 31, 2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

thereafter

total

29,670

2,172

2,690

1,609

1,742

2,120

19,337

Notes payable

207

–

–

–

–

–

207

Lease liabilities (1)

1,245

1,034

673

403

334

2,041

5,730

Loan secured by receivables

1,588

–

–

–

–

–

1,588

Interest payable on long-term debt, notes
payable and loan secured by receivables

1,301

1,133

1,060

1,019

962

10,548

16,023

(6)

18

(5)

(11)

(9)

(70)

(83)

Net (receipts) payments on cross currency
interest rate swaps
Commitments
Commitments for property, plant
and equipment and intangible assets

2,043

1,513

599

316

246

1,041

5,758

Purchase obligations

619

513

537

314

219

820

3,022

Planned acquisition of OUTFRONT Media Inc.

410

–

–

–

–

–

410

2

6

–

–

–

–

8

9,581

6,907

4,473

3,783

3,872

33,717

62,333

Leases committed not yet commenced
Total
(1) Includes imputed interest of $873 million.

We are also exposed to liquidity risk for financial liabilities due within
one year as shown in the statements of financial position in BCE’s 2023
consolidated financial statements.

digital media strategy and to deliver impactful, multi-channel marketing
solutions coast-to-coast. The results of the Canadian OOH business
of OUTFRONT Media Inc. will be included in our Bell Media segment.

Our commitments for property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets include program and feature film rights and investments to
expand and update our networks to meet customer demand.

Indemnifications and guarantees

Purchase obligations consist of contractual obligations under service
and product contracts for operating expenditures and other purchase
obligations.
Our commitments for leases not yet commenced include real estate,
OOH advertising spaces and fibre use. These leases are non-cancellable.
On October 23, 2023, Bell Media announced it plans to acquire the
Canadian OOH media business of OUTFRONT Media Inc. The transaction
is valued at $410 million, subject to certain adjustments, and is expected
to close in the first half of 2024, subject to regulatory approval and
other closing conditions. The acquisition of the Canadian OOH media
business of OUTFRONT Media Inc. is expected to support Bell Media’s

6

Total debt, excluding lease liabilities

MD&A Financial and capital management

Recognized financial liabilities

As a regular part of our business, we enter into agreements that provide
for indemnifications and guarantees to counterparties in transactions
involving business dispositions, sales of assets, sales of services,
purchases and development of assets, securitization agreements and
leases. While some of the agreements specify a maximum potential
exposure, many do not specify a maximum amount or termination date.
We cannot reasonably estimate the maximum potential amount we
could be required to pay counterparties because of the nature of almost
all of these indemnifications and guarantees. As a result, we cannot
determine how they could affect our future liquidity, capital resources
or credit risk profile. We have not made any significant payments under
indemnifications or guarantees in the past.

6.8 Litigation
In the ordinary course of business, we become involved in various claims
and legal proceedings seeking monetary damages and other relief. In
particular, because of the nature of our consumer-facing business, we
are exposed to class actions pursuant to which substantial monetary
damages may be claimed. Due to the inherent risks and uncertainties
of the litigation process, we cannot predict the final outcome or timing
of claims and legal proceedings. Subject to the foregoing, and based on
information currently available and management’s assessment of the

merits of the claims and legal proceedings pending at March 7, 2024,
management believes that the ultimate resolution of these claims and
legal proceedings is unlikely to have a material and negative effect on
our financial statements or operations. We believe that we have strong
defences and we intend to vigorously defend our positions.
For a description of important legal proceedings pending at March 7,
2024, please see the section entitled Legal proceedings contained in
the BCE 2023 AIF.

137

7 Selected annual and
quarterly information
7.1 Annual financial information
The following table shows selected consolidated financial data of BCE for 2023, 2022 and 2021 based on the annual consolidated financial
statements, which are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB). We discuss the factors that caused our results to vary over the past two years throughout this MD&A.
2023

2022

2021

Service

21,154

20,956

20,350

Product

3,519

3,218

3,099

Consolidated income statements

7

MD&A Selected annual and quarterly information

Operating revenues

Total operating revenues

24,673

24,174

23,449

Operating costs

(14,256)

(13,975)

(13,556)

Adjusted EBITDA

10,417

10,199

9,893

(200)

(94)

(209)

Depreciation

(3,745)

(3,660)

(3,627)

Amortization

(1,173)

(1,063)

(982)

(1,475)

(1,146)

(1,082)

108

51

(20)

(143)

(279)

(197)

Severance, acquisition and other costs

Finance costs
Interest expense
Net return (interest) on post-employment benefit obligations
Impairment of assets
Other (expense) income

(466)

(115)

160

Income taxes

(996)

(967)

(1,044)

Net earnings

2,327

2,926

2,892

Common shareholders

2,076

2,716

2,709

Preferred shareholders

187

152

131

Non-controlling interest

64

58

52

Net earnings

2,327

2,926

2,892

Net earnings per common share – basic and diluted

2.28

2.98

2.99

42.2%

42.2%

42.2%

Net earnings attributable to:

Ratios
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%)

138

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

2023

2022

2021

Consolidated statements of financial position
Property, plant and equipment

30,352

29,256

28,235

Total assets

71,940

69,329

66,764

Debt due within one year (including notes payable and loans secured by receivables)

5,042

4,137

2,625

Long-term debt

31,135

27,783

27,048

Total non-current liabilities

39,276

35,345

34,710

Equity attributable to BCE shareholders

20,229

22,178

22,635

Total equity

20,557

22,515

22,941

7,946

8,365

8,008

(5,781)

(5,517)

(7,018)
(4,852)

Capital expenditures

(4,581)

(5,133)

Short-term investments

(1,000)

–

–

Business acquisitions

(222)

(429)

(12)

Business dispositions

209

52

–

Spectrum licences

(183)

(3)

(2,082)

(1,542)

(2,988)

(925)

18

171

261

(646)

111

351

–

700

(150)

Cash flows used in financing activities
Issue of common shares
(Decrease) increase in notes payable
Increase (decrease) in securitized receivables
Issue of long-term debt

5,195

1,951

4,985

Repayment of long-term debt

(1,858)

(2,023)

(2,751)

(149)

–

–

Cash dividends paid on common shares

(3,486)

(3,312)

(3,132)

Cash dividends paid on preferred shares

(182)

(136)

(125)

Cash dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interest

(47)

(39)

(86)

3,144

3,067

2,980

Repurchase of a financial liability

Free cash flow

Share information
Weighted average number of common shares (millions)

912.2

911.5

906.3

Common shares outstanding at end of year (millions)

912.3

912.0

909.0

Market capitalization (1)

47,595

54,255

59,821

3.87

3.68

3.50

(3,530)

(3,356)

(3,175)

Dividends declared per common share (dollars)
Dividends declared on common shares
Dividends declared on preferred shares

(187)

(152)

(131)

Closing market price per common share (dollars)

52.17

59.49

65.81

Total shareholder return

(6.2%)

(4.2%)

27.9%

Capital intensity (%)

18.6%

21.2%

20.7%

Price to earnings ratio (times) (2)

22.88

19.96

22.01

45

45

50

7

Cash flows from operating activities
Cash flows used in investing activities

MD&A Selected annual and quarterly information

Consolidated statements of cash flows

Ratios

Other data
Number of employees (thousands)
(1) BCE’s common share price at the end of the year multiplied by the number of common shares outstanding at the end of the year.
(2) Price to earnings ratio is defined as BCE’s common share price at the end of the year divided by EPS.

139

7.2 Quarterly financial information
The following table shows selected BCE consolidated financial data by quarter for 2023 and 2022. This quarterly information is unaudited but
has been prepared on the same basis as the annual consolidated financial statements. We discuss the factors that caused our results to vary
over the past eight quarters throughout this MD&A.
2022

2023
Q4

Q3

Q2

Q1

5,222

5,353

5,193

5,233

5,177

832

1,086

831

628

673

Q4

Q3

Q2

Q1

Service

5,348

5,281

5,303

Product

1,125

799

763

Operating revenues

Total operating revenues

6,473

6,080

6,066

6,054

6,439

6,024

5,861

5,850

Adjusted EBITDA

2,567

2,667

2,645

2,538

2,437

2,588

2,590

2,584

Severance, acquisition and other costs

(41)

(10)

(100)

(49)

(19)

(22)

(40)

(13)

Depreciation

(954)

(937)

(936)

(918)

(922)

(914)

(933)

(891)

Amortization

(299)

(295)

(296)

(283)

(270)

(267)

(266)

(260)

(399)

(373)

(359)

(344)

(319)

(298)

(269)

(260)

27

27

27

27

13

13

7

18

Impairment of assets

(109)

–

–

(34)

(150)

(21)

(106)

(2)

Other (expense) income

(147)

(129)

(311)

121

19

(130)

(97)

93

Income taxes

(210)

(243)

(273)

(270)

(222)

(178)

(232)

(335)

Net earnings

435

707

397

788

567

771

654

934

Interest expense
Net return on post-employment benefit plans

Net earnings attributable to common shareholders

382

640

329

725

528

715

596

877

Net earnings per common share – basic and diluted

0.42

0.70

0.37

0.79

0.58

0.78

0.66

0.96

Weighted average number of common shares
outstanding – basic (millions)

912.3

912.3

912.2

912.1

912.0

911.9

911.9

910.1

Cash flows from operating activities

2,373

1,961

2,365

1,247

2,056

1,996

2,597

1,716

Free cash flow

1,289

754

1,016

85

376

642

1,333

716

Capital expenditures

(1,029)

(1,159)

(1,307)

(1,086)

(1,638)

(1,317)

(1,219)

(959)

Other information

7

MD&A Selected annual and quarterly information

Finance costs

Fourth quarter highlights
operating revenues

Q4 2023

Q4 2022

$ change

Bell CTS

5,744

5,649

95

1.7%

Bell Media

822

889

(67)

(7.5%)

(93)

(99)

6

6.1%

6,473

6,439

34

0.5%

Q4 2023

Q4 2022

$ change

% change

Bell CTS

2,419

2,308

111

4.8%

Bell Media

148

129

19

14.7%

2,567

2,437

130

5.3%

Inter-segment eliminations
Total BCE operating revenues
adjusted EBItda

Total BCE adjusted EBITDA

140

% change

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

BCE’s adjusted EBITDA increased by 5.3% in Q4 2023, compared to the
same period last year, due to growth from both our Bell CTS and Bell
Media segments of 4.8% and 14.7%, respectively. The year-over-year
increase in adjusted EBITDA reflected the flow-through of revenues,
along with lower operating costs of 2.4%, mainly driven by Bell Media
programming and content savings and the impact of various cost
reduction initiatives and operating efficiencies across the company.
This resulted in a year-over-year increase in adjusted EBITDA margin
of 1.9 pts, to 39.7% in Q4 2023.
Bell CTS operating revenues grew by 1.7% in Q4 2023, compared to
the same period last year, driven by higher service revenues of 1.2%
from ongoing growth in our mobile phone, connected device, Internet
and IPTV subscriber bases coupled with the flow-through of consumer
rate increases, the contribution from acquisitions, mainly Distributel
and FX Innovation, greater wireless roaming revenues and higher sales
of business solutions services to large enterprise customers. This was
moderated by increased acquisition, retention and bundle discounts on
residential services, ongoing erosion in legacy voice, data and satellite TV
services and lower wireless data overages driven by greater customer
adoption of monthly plans with higher data thresholds. Additionally,
product revenues increased by 3.6% year over year, mainly driven by
higher wireless product revenues due to greater sales mix of premium
mobile phones and lower year-over-year device discounting during
the Black Friday and December holiday periods, moderated by lower
contracted sales volumes and reduced consumer electronic sales at
The Source.
Bell CTS adjusted EBITDA increased by 4.8% in Q4 2023, compared
to Q4 2022, from greater year-over-year operating revenues, along
with lower operating costs. The decline in operating costs of 0.5%
reflected various cost reduction initiatives and operating efficiencies,
including workforce reductions. Adjusted EBITDA margin of 42.1% in
Q4 2023, increased by 1.2 points over Q4 2022, mainly due to the
impact of better promotional offer discipline during the Black Friday
and December holiday sales periods this year compared to 2022, as
well as higher year-over-year revenue flow-through and greater
operating cost savings.

Bell Media adjusted EBITDA increased by 14.7% in Q4 2023, compared
to the same period last year, as lower operating costs more than
offset the decline in operating revenues. The decrease in operating
costs was mainly attributable to lower content and programming
costs due to higher costs in Q4 2022 related to the broadcast of the
FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, and content delays in Q4 2023 due to the
WGA and SAG-AFTRA strikes, partly offset by ongoing contractual
increases in content costs. Additionally, the year-over-year decline
in operating costs reflected lower labour costs due to restructuring
initiatives undertaken as a result of the unfavourable economic and
broadcasting regulatory environments and the cessation of the CRTC
Part II broadcasting licence fee.
BCE capital expenditures of $1,029 million in Q4 2023, declined by
$609 million or 37.2%, compared to the same period last year. This
corresponded to a capital intensity ratio of 15.9%, down 9.5 pts over
Q4 2022. The decrease in capital expenditures was driven by lower
capital spending in Bell CTS of $584 million, due to lower planned
spending in 2023 subsequent to accelerated network investments in
2022, along with an unplanned additional $105 million decrease in Q4
2023 as a result of the CRTC’s decision in November 2023 to mandate
wholesale access to Bell’s FTTP network. Bell Media capital expenditures
in Q4 2023 also declined year-over-year by $25 million, due to greater
spending in Q4 2022 on studio expansions and timing of investments
to support digital growth.

MD&A Selected annual and quarterly information

BCE net earnings decreased by 23.3% in Q4 2023, compared to
Q4 2022, mainly due to higher other expense, higher interest expense,
higher depreciation and amortization and higher severance, acquisition
and other costs, partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower
impairment of assets.

Bell Media operating revenues decreased by 7.5% in Q4 2023, compared
to the same period last year, driven by lower advertising revenues, partly
offset by higher subscriber revenues. The continued growth in digital
revenues of 27% moderated the overall decline in operating revenues.
Advertising revenues decreased by 13.7% in Q4 2023, compared to
Q4 2022, due to lower demand from advertisers as a result of ongoing
unfavourable economic conditions, which negatively impacted revenues
across our TV and radio platforms. TV advertising revenues were also
unfavourably impacted by the WGA and SAG-AFTRA strikes and the
benefit last year from the broadcast of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022.
The decline in advertising revenues was partly offset by continued
growth in digital advertising revenues, mainly driven by increased
bookings from Bell Media’s SAM TV media sales tool. Subscriber revenues
increased by 1.0% in Q4 2023, compared to the same period last year,
due to a one-time retroactive adjustment related to a contract with a
Canadian TV distributor.

7

Total operating revenues at BCE increased by 0.5% in Q4 2023,
compared to Q4 2022, driven by higher product revenues of 3.6%,
moderated by a modest decline in service revenues of 0.1%, as the
decline in Bell Media revenues was mostly offset by the growth in Bell
CTS service revenues. Bell CTS operating revenues increased by 1.7%
year over year, attributable to both higher service revenues of 1.2%
and greater product revenues of 3.6%. The year-over-year growth in
service revenues reflected greater wireless and wireline data revenues,
moderated by ongoing declines in voice revenues. Bell Media operating
revenues declined by 7.5% year over year, driven by ongoing pressures
in advertising revenues.

BCE severance, acquisition and other costs of $41 million in Q4 2023
increased by $22 million, compared to Q4 2022, mainly due to higher
acquisition and other costs, partly offset by lower severance costs
related to involuntary and voluntary employee terminations.
BCE depreciation of $954 million in Q4 2023 increased by $32 million,
year over year, mainly due to a higher asset base as we continued to
invest in our broadband and wireless networks.
BCE amortization of $299 million in Q4 2023 increased by $29 million,
year over year, mainly due to a higher asset base.
BCE interest expense of $399 million in Q4 2023 increased by
$80 million, compared to Q4 2022, mainly due to higher average debt
balances and higher average interest rates.
BCE impairment of assets of $109 million in Q4 2023 decreased by
$41 million, compared to Q4 2022, mainly due to lower impairment
charges for French TV channels within our Bell Media segment.

141

BCE other expense of $147 million in Q4 2023 increased by $166 million,
year over year, mainly due to losses on our equity investments in
associates and joint ventures which included a loss on BCE’s share of
an obligation to repurchase at fair value the minority interest in one of
BCE’s joint ventures, partly offset by higher interest income.
BCE income taxes of $210 million in Q4 2023 decreased by $12 million,
compared to Q4 2022, mainly due to a higher value of uncertain tax
positions favourably resolved in 2023 compared to 2022, partly offset
by higher taxable income.
BCE net earnings attributable to common shareholders of $382 million
in Q4 2023, or $0.42 per share, were lower than the $528 million, or
$0.58 per share, reported in Q4 2022. The year-over-year decrease
was mainly due to higher other expense, higher interest expense,
higher depreciation and amortization and higher severance, acquisition

and other costs, partly offset by higher adjusted EBITDA and lower
impairment of assets. Adjusted net earnings increased to $691 million
in Q4 2023, compared to $654 million in Q4 2022, and adjusted EPS
increased to $0.76 from $0.71 in Q4 2022.
BCE cash flows from operating activities was $2,373 million in
Q4 2023 compared to $2,056 million in Q4 2022. The increase was
mainly attributed to lower income taxes paid, higher cash from working
capital and higher adjusted EBITDA, partly offset by higher interest paid.
BCE free cash flow generated in Q4 2023 was $1,289 million, compared
to $376 million in Q4 2022. The increase was mainly attributable to lower
capital expenditures and higher cash flows from operating activities,
excluding acquisition and other costs paid.

Some of our revenues and expenses vary slightly by season, which
may impact quarter-to-quarter financial results.
Wireless service and product revenues are influenced by the timing of
new mobile device launches and seasonal promotional periods, such as
back-to-school, Black Friday and the Christmas holiday period, as well
as the level of overall competitive intensity. Because of these seasonal
effects, subscriber additions and retention costs due to device upgrades
related to contract renewals are typically higher in the third and fourth
quarters. For ARPU, historically we have experienced seasonal sequential
increases in the second and third quarters, due to higher levels of usage
and roaming in the spring and summer months, followed by historical
seasonal sequential declines in the fourth and first quarters. However,
this seasonal effect on ARPU has moderated, as unlimited voice and
data options have become more prevalent, resulting in less variability
in chargeable data usage.

7

MD&A Selected annual and quarterly information

Seasonality considerations

142

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Wireline service and product revenues tend to be higher in the fourth
quarter because of historically higher data and equipment product
sales to business customers. However, this may vary from year to
year depending on the strength of the economy and the presence
of targeted sales initiatives, which can influence customer spending.
Home Phone, TV and Internet subscriber activity is subject to modest
seasonal fluctuations, attributable largely to residential moves during
the summer months and the back-to-school period in the third quarter.
Targeted marketing efforts conducted during various times of the year to
coincide with special events or broad-based marketing campaigns also
may have an impact on overall wireline service and product revenues.
Bell Media revenue and related expenses from TV and radio broadcasting
are largely derived from the sale of advertising, the demand for which
is affected by prevailing economic conditions as well as cyclical and
seasonal variations. Seasonal variations in TV are driven by the strength
of TV ratings, particularly during the fall programming season, major
sports league seasons and other special sporting events such as the
Olympic Games, National Hockey League (NHL) and NBA playoffs
and FIFA World Cup soccer, as well as fluctuations in consumer retail
activity during the year.

8 Regulatory environment
8.1 Introduction

Although most of our retail services are not price-regulated, government
agencies and departments such as the CRTC, ISED, Canadian Heritage
and the Competition Bureau continue to play a significant role in
regulatory matters such as establishing and modifying regulations for
mandatory access to networks, spectrum auctions, the imposition of
consumer-related codes of conduct, approval of acquisitions, broadcast
and spectrum licensing, foreign ownership requirements, privacy and
cybersecurity obligations, and control of copyright piracy. Adverse
decisions by governments or regulatory agencies, increasing regulation
or a lack of effective anti-piracy remedies could have negative financial,
operational, reputational or competitive consequences for our business.

8.2 Telecommunications Act
The Telecommunications Act governs telecommunications in Canada.
It defines the broad objectives of Canada’s telecommunications policy
and provides the Government of Canada with the power to give general
direction to the CRTC on any of its policy objectives. It applies to several
of the BCE group of companies and partnerships, including Bell Canada,
Bell Mobility, NorthernTel, Télébec, Maskatel and Northwestel.
Under the Telecommunications Act, all facilities-based telecommuni­
cations service providers in Canada, known as telecommunications
common carriers (TCCs), must seek regulatory approval for all telecom­
munications services, unless the services are exempt or forborne from
regulation. Most retail services offered by the BCE group of companies
are forborne from retail regulation. The CRTC may exempt an entire
class of carriers from regulation under the Telecommunications Act if
the exemption meets the objectives of Canada’s telecommunications
policy. In addition, a few large TCCs, including those in the BCE group,
must also meet certain Canadian ownership requirements. BCE monitors
and periodically reports on the level of non-Canadian ownership of its
common shares.

Review of mobile wireless services

On April 15, 2021, the CRTC released a decision requiring Bell Mobility,
Rogers Communications Canada Inc., Telus Communications Inc. and
Saskatchewan Telecommunications (SaskTel) to provide MVNO access
to their networks to regional wireless carriers to allow them to operate

as MVNOs in ISED Tier 4 spectrum licence areas where they own
spectrum. While the terms and conditions for MVNO access would be
established in tariffs to be approved by the CRTC, the rate for MVNO
access would not be subject to the CRTC tariff regime but instead be
commercially negotiated between the parties with final offer arbitration
(FOA) by the CRTC as a recourse if negotiations fail. The CRTC indicated
that the mandated access service is intended to be a temporary
measure and will, in the absence of certain implementation delays, be
phased out seven years from the date tariffed terms and conditions
are finalized. In the decision, the CRTC has also required Bell Mobility,
Rogers Communications Canada Inc. and Telus Communications Inc.
to provide seamless handoffs as part of the CRTC’s existing mandated
domestic roaming service and has confirmed that its mandatory
roaming obligations apply to 5G. On July 14, 2021, Bell Mobility, Rogers
Communications Canada Inc., Telus Communications Inc. and SaskTel
filed proposed tariff terms and conditions for the mandated MVNO
access service and Bell Mobility, Rogers Communications Canada Inc.
and Telus Communications Inc. filed proposed amendments to their
mandated roaming tariffs to reflect the CRTC’s determinations. On
April 6, 2022, the CRTC issued a decision on the mandated roaming
tariffs in which it directed Bell Mobility, Rogers Communications Canada
Inc. and Telus Communications Inc. to make specified changes to their
tariffs by April 21, 2022, for CRTC approval.

MD&A Regulatory environment

In particular, the CRTC regulates the prices we can charge for retail
telecommunications services when it determines there is not enough
competition to protect the interests of consumers. The CRTC has
determined that competition is sufficient to grant forbearance from
retail price regulation under the Telecommunications Act for the
vast majority of our retail wireline and wireless telecommunications
services. The CRTC can also mandate the provision of access by

competitors to our wireline and wireless networks and the rates we
can charge them. Notably, it currently mandates wholesale high-speed
access for wireline broadband as well as domestic wireless roaming
services and a wholesale facilities-based MVNO access service. Lower
mandated wholesale rates or the imposition of unfavourable terms
for mandated services would undermine our incentives to invest in
network improvements and extensions, limit our flexibility, influence the
market structure, improve the business position of our competitors, limit
network-based differentiation of our services and negatively impact
the financial performance of our businesses. Our TV distribution and our
TV and radio broadcasting businesses are subject to the Broadcasting
Act and are, for the most part, not subject to retail price regulation.

8

This section describes certain legislation that governs our business and
provides highlights of recent regulatory initiatives and proceedings,
government consultations and government positions that affect us,
influence our business and may continue to affect our ability to compete
in the marketplace. Bell Canada and several of its direct and indirect
subsidiaries, including Bell Mobility, Bell ExpressVu Limited Partnership
(ExpressVu), Bell Media, NorthernTel, Limited Partnership (NorthernTel),
Télébec, Limited Partnership (Télébec), Group Maskatel Québec LP
(Maskatel) and Northwestel, are governed by the Telecommunications
Act, the Broadcasting Act, the Radiocommunication Act and/or the
Bell Canada Act. Our business is affected by regulations, policies and
decisions made by various regulatory agencies, including the CRTC, a
quasi-judicial agency of the Government of Canada responsible for
regulating Canada’s telecommunications and broadcasting industries,
and other federal government departments, in particular ISED and the
Competition Bureau.

143

8

MD&A Regulatory environment

On October 19, 2022, the CRTC issued a decision in which it made certain
determinations regarding the terms and conditions of the proposed
MVNO tariffs previously filed by Bell Mobility, Rogers Communications
Canada Inc., Telus Communications Inc. and SaskTel, and directed them
to file revised tariffs reflecting these determinations within 30 days. In
the decision, the CRTC directed Bell Mobility, Rogers Communications
Canada Inc., Telus Communications Inc. and SaskTel to offer MVNO
access service to regional carriers with a home radio access network
(RAN) and core network actively offering mobile wireless services
commercially to retail customers in Canada, and confirmed that similar
terms and conditions related to seamless handoffs and 5G in the
domestic roaming tariffs should apply to the mandated MVNO tariffs.
The CRTC required Bell Mobility, Rogers Communications Canada Inc.,
Telus Communications Inc. and SaskTel to begin accepting requests
for MVNO access from regional wireless carriers from the date of the
decision. Bell Mobility is required to provide access to the mandated
MVNO service in all provinces (excluding Saskatchewan) and in the three
territories. It is unclear at this time what impact, if any, the measures
set out in this decision could have on our business and financial results,
and our ability to make investments at the same levels as we have in
the past. In Q3 2023, we began providing MVNO access service on
Bell Mobility’s network in certain regions and expect that use of the
service on our network by our wholesale customers will continue to
expand in the future.
On July 13, 2023, the CRTC accepted a request from Québecor Media Inc.
to initiate FOA in respect of rates for MVNO access service from Bell
Mobility. Following the parties’ submissions in August 2023, the CRTC
issued a decision on October 10, 2023, selecting the rate proposed by
Bell Mobility. On December 15, 2023, Québecor Media Inc. subsequently
filed a Part 1 application seeking the CRTC’s intervention in determining
the start date for the MVNO access service from Bell Mobility. Bell Mobility
filed its responding submission on January 19, 2024.
The CRTC previously accepted a joint request for FOA from Rogers
Communications Canada Inc. and Québecor Media Inc. On July 24,
2023, the CRTC issued its decision in that arbitration, selecting the rate
proposed by Québecor Media Inc. In the decision, the CRTC made a
number of findings or determinations that indicate a continued trend
toward downplaying the importance of incentives for investment in
telecommunications networks in Canada. While the CRTC’s determination
in Bell Mobility’s FOA with Québecor Media Inc appears to have
moderated this approach by highlighting the importance of providing
a return on investment to facilities-based carriers, adverse regulatory
decisions such as the Rogers Communications Canada Inc. and Québecor
Media Inc FOA decision are expected to impact the specific nature,
magnitude, location and timing of our future wireless and wireline
investment decisions. On August 23, 2023, Rogers Communications
Canada Inc. sought leave to appeal the CRTC’s arbitration decision with
the Federal Court of Appeal.

Review of wholesale FTTN high-speed access
service rates

As part of its ongoing review of wholesale Internet rates, on October 6,
2016, the CRTC significantly reduced, on an interim basis, some of the
wholesale rates that Bell Canada and other major providers charge for
access by third-party Internet resellers to FTTN or cable networks, as
applicable. On August 15, 2019, the CRTC further reduced the wholesale
rates that Internet resellers pay to access network infrastructure built
by facilities-based providers like Bell Canada, with retroactive effect
to March 2016.

144

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

The August 2019 decision was stayed, first by the Federal Court of
Appeal and then by the CRTC, with the result that it never came into
effect. In response to review and vary applications filed by each of Bell
Canada, five major cable carriers (Cogeco Communications Inc., Eastlink,
Rogers Communications Canada Inc., Shaw and Vidéotron) and Telus
Communications Inc., the CRTC issued Decision 2021-182 on May 27,
2021, which mostly reinstated the rates prevailing prior to August 2019
with some reductions to the Bell Canada rates with retroactive effect
to March 2016. As a result, in the second quarter of 2021, we recorded
a reduction in revenue of $44 million in our consolidated income
statements.
While there remains a requirement to refund monies to third-party
Internet resellers, the establishment of final wholesale rates that
are similar to those prevailing since 2019 reduces the impact of the
CRTC’s long-running review of wholesale Internet rates. The largest
reseller, TekSavvy Solutions Inc. (TekSavvy), obtained leave to appeal
the CRTC’s decision of May 27, 2021 before the Federal Court of Appeal.
Oral hearings are now complete and we are awaiting a decision of the
court. The decision was also challenged in three petitions brought by
TekSavvy, Canadian Network Operators Consortium Inc. and National
Capital Freenet before Cabinet but, on May 26, 2022, Cabinet announced
it would not alter the decision.

Review of the wholesale high-speed access
service framework

On March 8, 2023, the CRTC launched a consultation, TNC 2023-56,
to review the wholesale high-speed access framework. The CRTC
expressed the preliminary views that (i) the provision of aggregated
wholesale high-speed access services should be mandated, including
over FTTP facilities, and (ii) aggregated access to FTTP facilities should be
mandated on a temporary and expedited basis, until the CRTC reaches
a decision as to whether such access is to be provided indefinitely.

The review is also notably seeking comments on (i) the future of
disaggregated high-speed access services, (ii) the state of competition
in the retail Internet service market, (iii) whether other changes are
required to support wholesale-based competition across all regions
of the country, (iv) whether wholesale regulation should continue to
be relied upon to address concerns regarding market concentration
and the potential exercise of market power, and (v) whether the CRTC
should consider any type of retail regulation.
On November 6, 2023, in Telecom Decision CRTC 2023-358 (the Decision),
the CRTC determined that aggregated access to Bell Canada’s FTTP
facilities in Ontario and Québec should be mandated on a temporary
and expedited basis, and the CRTC set interim access rates. The CRTC
may maintain, reverse or otherwise modify this new obligation when
it concludes its ongoing wholesale high-speed access review.
The imposition of an interim aggregated access to FTTP facilities
obligation has undermined Bell Canada’s incentives to invest in nextgeneration wireline networks and is expected to adversely impact our
financial results. Bell Canada announced its intention to reduce capital
expenditures by over $1 billion over 2024 and 2025 combined, including
a minimum of $500 million in 2024, and roll back fibre network expansion
to a near-term target of 8.3 million locations by the end of 2025 as a
result of federal government policies and the Decision. Bell Canada is
also capping fibre speeds at 3 Gbps. In Q4 2023, Bell Canada reduced
its capital investment by $105 million more than originally planned as
a result of the Decision.

On November 15, 2023, Bell Canada sought leave to appeal the Decision
to the Federal Court of Appeal, along with a stay of the Decision pending
resolution of its appeal. On February 9, 2024, the Federal Court of
Appeal granted Bell Canada leave to appeal but declined to grant the
requested stay. On February 2, 2024, Bell Canada filed an appeal to
the Governor-in-Council.

the circumstances under which pole owners may obtain priority access
to poles or reserve capacity for their future use on poles; and imposes
new notification and reporting obligations on pole owners. On April 3,
2023, large ILECs, including Bell Canada, updated their applicable
tariffs to incorporate the new determinations and are awaiting the
CRTC’s approval.

Additionally, on February 1, 2024, CIK Telecom filed an application with
the CRTC asking that the CRTC clarify or vary the intended scope of
the Decision to: (1) prevent Bell Canada, Rogers Communications Inc.,
Québecor Media Inc. and Telus Communications Inc. from accessing
aggregated FTTP facilities pursuant to the Decision, and (2) lower the
interim rates set in the Decision. In a letter dated March 5, 2024, the
CRTC stated that the changes CIK Telecom sought will be considered
in the final decision and thus closed the application.

On October 16, 2023, Bell Canada filed Tariff Notice 981 to revise the
tariff pages for its National Services Tariff (NST) CRTC 7400 Item 901 –
Support Structure Service to reflect an updated monthly pole rental
rate per unit applicable in its Ontario and Québec serving area, and is
awaiting the CRTC’s decision on this application.

CRTC review of access to poles

On February 15, 2023, the CRTC issued a decision which included a
number of determinations to facilitate access by third parties to poles
owned by Canadian carriers or poles to which Canadian carriers control
access. Among other directions, the CRTC’s decision: establishes new
timelines for each step in the pole access permitting process; reduces
the obligations of access seekers to pay costs for any pole repairs,
upgrades or replacements required to accommodate the addition of
the access seeker’s equipment; provides access seekers with greater
flexibility to carry out pole repairs and upgrades themselves; maintains

Canada’s telecommunications foreign
ownership rules

Under the Telecommunications Act, there are no foreign investment
restrictions applicable to TCCs that have less than a 10% share of the total
Canadian telecommunications market as measured by annual revenues.
However, foreign investment in telecommunications companies can still
be refused by the government under the Investment Canada Act. The
absence of foreign ownership restrictions on such small or new entrant
TCCs could result in more foreign companies entering the Canadian
market, including by acquiring spectrum licences or Canadian TCCs.

MD&A Regulatory environment

On June 8, 2022, the CRTC launched the second phase of a proceeding
to review the regulatory framework for Northwestel and the state
of telecommunications services in Canada’s North. This proceeding
may result in modifications to the current regulatory framework for
Northwestel, including with respect to issues such as rates, wholesale
access and subsidies. Modifications to the current regulatory framework
may result in additional subsidies and rate flexibility for Northwestel,
which would encourage investment, or they may result in rate reductions/
restrictions or additional wholesale obligations, which would undermine
incentives for investment in the North. At this time, it is unclear what
impact, if any, the results of the proceeding could have on our business
and financial results.

On June 14, 2022, the Government of Canada introduced Bill C-26, An Act
Respecting Cyber Security (ARCS). ARCS would enact the Critical Cyber
Systems Protection Act, which would establish a regulatory framework
requiring designated operators in the finance, telecommunications,
energy and transportation sectors to protect their critical cyber
systems. Also included in Bill C-26 are proposed changes to the
Telecommunications Act that would establish new authorities that would
enable the Government to take action to promote the security of the
Canadian telecommunications system, which could include measures
with respect to certain suppliers, such as Huawei and ZTE. If enacted,
Bill C-26 would give the Minister responsible for ISED additional ordermaking powers and establish an enforcement regime under which the
Minister responsible for ISED could impose administrative monetary
penalties, among other actions. It is unclear at this time what impact
the legislative changes could have on our business and financial results.

8

Review of the CRTC’s regulatory framework
for Northwestel

Bill C-26, An Act Respecting Cyber Security

8.3 Broadcasting Act
The Broadcasting Act outlines the broad objectives of Canada’s
broadcasting policy and assigns the regulation and supervision of
the broadcasting system to the CRTC. Key policy objectives of the
Broadcasting Act are to protect and strengthen the cultural, political,
social and economic fabric of Canada and to encourage the development
of Canadian expression.
Most broadcasting activities require a programming or distribution
licence from the CRTC. The CRTC may exempt broadcasting undertakings
from complying with certain licensing and regulatory requirements
if it is satisfied that non-compliance will not materially affect the
implementation of Canadian broadcasting policy. A corporation must

also meet certain Canadian ownership and control requirements to
obtain a programming or distribution licence, and corporations must
have the CRTC’s approval before they can transfer effective control of
a broadcasting licensee.
Our TV distribution operations and our TV and radio broadcasting
operations are subject to the requirements of the Broadcasting Act, the
policies and decisions of the CRTC and their respective broadcasting
licences. Any changes in the Broadcasting Act, amendments to
regulations or the adoption of new ones, or amendments to licences,
could negatively affect our competitive position or the cost of providing
services.

145

Bill C-11, An Act to amend the Broadcasting Act

On April 27, 2023, Bill C-11, An Act to amend the Broadcasting Act and to
make related and consequential amendments to other Acts, received
royal assent. Key among the amendments in Bill C-11 is the immediate
elimination of CRTC Part II Licence Fees whereby the broadcasting
industry paid an annual tax of approximately $125 million per year.
In addition, foreign online broadcasting undertakings doing business in
Canada will be required to contribute to the Canadian broadcasting
system in a manner that the CRTC deems appropriate. The specifics
of such contributions will be determined through the CRTC’s public
consultation processes and enforced by way of conditions imposed
by the CRTC. The timing and the outcome of the CRTC’s consultation
processes, the first stage of which was launched on May 12, 2023 (as
discussed under Broadcast Notice of Consultation 2023-138 below)
are unknown; therefore the impact that these regulatory changes
could have on our business and financial results is unclear at this time.

8

MD&A Regulatory environment

Broadcast Notice of Consultation CRTC 2023-138

On May 12, 2023, the CRTC issued Broadcasting Notice of Consultation
CRTC 2023-138, The Path Forward – Working towards a modernized
regulatory framework regarding the contributions to support Canadian
and Indigenous content. This Notice represents the first of three
steps to develop an updated regulatory framework for broadcasting
undertakings, including online undertakings. A key part of this new
framework is to establish the conditions under which online services
would be required to make financial contributions, including initial base
contributions, to support the creation and discoverability of Canadian

Broadcast Policy Direction

On November 14, 2023, the Government of Canada released its Policy
Direction, which directs the CRTC on how to implement the amendments
to the Broadcasting Act (Bill C-11). The Direction requires the CRTC to focus
on ensuring strong support for Canadian and Indigenous programming,
as well as to consider the importance of sustainable support for local
and regional news by the Canadian broadcasting system. In addition,
the Direction requires the CRTC to minimize the regulatory burden
on the Canadian broadcasting system, and to consider how to foster
collaboration between Canadian and foreign undertakings. At this
time, it is unclear what impact, if any, the Direction could have on our
business and financial results.

8.4 Radiocommunication Act
ISED regulates the use of radio spectrum under the Radiocommu­
nication Act and Radiocommunication Regulations to ensure that
radiocommunication in Canada is developed and operated efficiently.
All companies wishing to operate radio apparatus in Canada must hold
a radio licence or spectrum licence to do so. The Radiocommunication
Regulations specify those persons (including corporations such as Bell
Canada and Bell Mobility) who are eligible to be issued radio licences
or spectrum licences.

3800 MHz spectrum auction

The auction for licensing 3800 MHz spectrum began on October 24, 2023
and the provisional spectrum licence winners were announced
by ISED on November 30, 2023. Bell Mobility secured the right to
acquire 939 licences of 3800 MHz spectrum across Canada covering
1.77 billion MHz-Pop for $518 million. As part of this auction, ISED
implemented a cross-band spectrum cap (with the 3500 MHz band) of
100 MHz. The auctioned licences will have a 20-year term and licences
will not be transferable for the first five years of the licence term if the
transfer results in exceeding the cross-band spectrum cap. In addition,
licensees will be required to provide network coverage to a certain
percentage of the population at 5, 7, 10 and 20 years following licence
issuance depending on the licence area. Licensees with existing LTE
networks will be subject to additional deployment requirements based
on their existing LTE coverage. Bell Mobility’s initial auction payment
representing 20% of the total payment was made on January 17, 2024.
The remaining 80% representing the final auction payment is due on
May 29, 2024, at which time ISED will issue the 3800 MHz spectrum
licences.

146

and Indigenous content. It will also determine who the recipients of the
initial base contributions will be. The CRTC held a three-week hearing
beginning on November 20, 2023 to focus on these issues. While the
CRTC has not yet initiated its public consultations for Steps 2 and 3,
these subsequent proceedings will focus on the overall framework
for both traditional and online undertakings, with a focus on how to
support the creation of Canadian and Indigenous content beyond
financial contribution requirements, as well as diversity, inclusion
and discoverability issues. In Step 3, the CRTC intends to finalize
each undertaking’s or ownership group’s contribution requirements,
presumably as part of our group licence renewal. The timing and
outcome of all of these proceedings, including the CRTC’s Step 1 decision,
is unknown. Therefore, the impact that these regulatory changes could
have on our business and financial results is unclear at this time.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Consultation on 26, 28 and 38 GHz (Millimeter
Wave) spectrum licensing framework

On June 6, 2022, ISED initiated a consultation seeking input regarding
a policy and licensing framework to govern the auction and use of
spectrum licences in the 26, 28 and 38 Gigahertz (GHz) (Millimeter Wave)
spectrum bands. The consultation paper seeks comments on the use
of a spectrum set-aside for certain auction bidders, or a spectrum cap
across the 26, 28 and 38 GHz spectrum bands. ISED proposes that the
auctioned licences will have a 10-year term and that there will be limits
on the extent of transferability of licences for the first five years of the
licence term. In addition, ISED proposes that licensees will be required
to deploy a certain number of sites in each licence area at five and nine
and a half years following licence issuance. ISED has not yet indicated
a specific date when the auction will take place. The consultation paper
also seeks comments on the transition process for existing 38 GHz
licensees from fixed to flexible use (i.e., mobile or fixed use), as well as
the limitations on the use of 38 GHz spectrum by satellite earth stations.
It is unclear what impact the results of this consultation and future
related processes could have on our business and financial results.

8.5 Bell Canada Act
Among other things, the Bell Canada Act limits how Bell Canada
voting shares and Bell Canada facilities may be sold or transferred.
Specifically, under the Bell Canada Act, the CRTC must approve any
sale or other disposal of Bell Canada voting shares that are held by
BCE, unless the sale or disposal would result in BCE retaining at least

80% of all of the issued and outstanding voting shares of Bell Canada.
Except in the ordinary course of business, the sale or other disposal of
facilities integral to Bell Canada’s telecommunications activities must
also receive CRTC approval.

8.6 Other
revenue and reach at least 20 million Canadians on a monthly basis.
In addition, the total amount of compensation to be provided by the
largest platform (i.e., Google) is limited to $100 million annually, and
compensation provided by other platforms will be determined by the
CRTC based on the platform’s Canadian advertising revenues. Of these
amounts, private broadcasters cannot receive more than 30% of the
overall compensation available. The amount of compensation that
Bell Media may receive from Google is unclear, as is the timing of such
compensation. It is also unknown whether Meta will stop blocking news
links and subject themselves to the jurisdiction of the Online News Act.
While Meta’s actions are having some negative impact on our news sites,
the full impact that the legislative changes could have on our business
and financial results is unknown at this time. Finally, the CRTC must still
establish its processes to administer the Online News Act.
MD&A Regulatory environment

On June 22, 2023, Bill C-18, An Act respecting online communications
platforms that make news content available to persons in Canada (the
Online News Act) received royal assent. The Online News Act requires
digital news intermediaries, such as Google and Meta, that share news
content produced by other news outlets to negotiate commercial
arrangements with those outlets, compensating them for the news
content shared on digital platforms. The legislation entitles Bell Media’s
general news services, such as CTV and Noovo, to compensation.
Further details regarding the compensation framework have been
set out in Regulations that were released on December 15, 2023. These
Regulations clarify that the Online News Act applies to search engines
and social media sites that provide access to news content in Canada
provided these platforms earn at least Cdn $1 billion in annual global

8

Bill C-18, the Online News Act

147

9 Business risks
A risk is the possibility that an event might happen in the future that could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition,
liquidity, financial results or reputation. The actual effect of any event could be materially different from what we currently anticipate.
The risks described in this MD&A are not the only ones that could affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us
or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, financial
results or reputation.
This section describes the principal business risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity,
financial results or reputation, and cause actual results or events to differ materially from our expectations expressed in, or implied by,
our forward-looking statements. Certain of these principal business risks have already been discussed in other sections of this MD&A,
and we refer the reader to those sections for a discussion of such risks. All of the risk discussions set out in the sections referred to in the
table below, as well as the risk discussion relating to general economic conditions and geopolitical events set out in Section 3.3, Principal
business risks, are incorporated by reference in this section 9.
Risks discussed in other sections of this MD&A

Section references

Regulatory environment

Section 3.3, Principal business risks
Section 8, Regulatory environment

Competitive environment

Section 3.3, Principal business risks
Section 5, Business segment analysis (Competitive landscape and industry trends section
for each segment)

Technology/infrastructure transformation

Section 3.3, Principal business risks

Risks specifically relating to our Bell CTS
and Bell Media segments

Section 5, Business segment analysis (Principal business risks section for each segment)

9

MD&A Business risks

The other principal business risks that could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, financial results
or reputation are discussed below.

148

Customer experience
Our
networks

Our customers
and relationships

Our products
and services

Driving a positive customer experience in all aspects of our
engagement with customers is important to avoid brand degradation
and other adverse impacts on our business and financial performance
As the bar continues to be raised by customers’ evolving expectations of
service and value, failure to get ahead of such expectations and build a
more robust and consistent service experience at a fair value proposition
could hinder product and service differentiation and customer loyalty.
The foundation of effective customer service is the ability to deliver highquality, consistent and simple solutions to customers in an expeditious
manner and on mutually agreeable terms. Although we seek to reduce
complexity in our operations through our transformation initiatives,
we operate with multiple technology platforms, ordering and billing
systems, sales channels, marketing databases and a myriad of rate
plans, promotions, brands and product offerings, in the context of a
large customer base and a workforce that continuously requires to
be trained, monitored and replaced, which may limit our ability to
respond quickly to market changes and reduce costs, and may lead
to customer confusion or billing, service or other errors, which could
adversely affect customer satisfaction, acquisition and retention. Media
attention to customer complaints could also erode our brand and
reputation and adversely affect customer acquisition and retention. In
addition, the current global economic environment may bring about
further workforce reduction initiatives or limit investments, which could
negatively impact the rapidity of our response to customer demands
and the overall customer experience.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

With the proliferation of connectivity services, apps and devices,
customers are accustomed to doing things when, how and where they
want through websites, self-serve options, web chat, call centres and
social media forums. These customer demands have intensified since
the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting shift to
online transactions, and we seek to provide the necessary platforms
for customers to research, interact, purchase and receive service.
Customers’ journey is increasingly completed on mobile devices,
requiring alignment of websites, customer support platforms and
marketing. Understanding the customer relationship as a whole in a
multi-product environment and delivering a simple, seamless experience
at a fair price is increasingly central to an evolving competitive dynamic.
While we have introduced new services and tools, including selfmanaged solutions, designed to accelerate our customer experience
evolution, we are unable to predict whether such services and tools
will be sufficient to meet customer expectations. Failure to develop true
omni-channel capabilities and improve our customer experience by
digitizing and developing a consistent, fast and on-demand end-to-end
experience before, during and after sales using new technologies such
as AI and machine learning, in parallel with our network evolution, could
also adversely affect our business, financial results, reputation and
brand value. Such development activities could further be challenged by
scarcity of skilled resources in a competitive labour market. In addition,
while AI could provide for better, cost-effective and convenient customer
experiences, we must carefully assess the challenges associated with
the use of such technology by us as well as by our competitors.

Customers’ perception of our products, services, brand and corporate
image is also important. Embracing topics that matter to the stakeholder
value proposition, such as ESG practices and the reporting of same,
adds an important layer to the customer perception of our company
and thus to the overall customer experience. Failure to positively

influence customer perceptions through effective communication,
including through our use of social media and other communication
media or otherwise, could adversely affect our business, financial
results, reputation and brand value.

Security management and data governance
Our products
and services

Our operations, service performance, reputation and business
continuity depend on how well we protect our physical and
non-physical assets, including from information security threats
Our operations, service performance, reputation and business continuity
depend on how well we protect our physical and non-physical
assets, including networks, IT systems, offices, corporate stores and
sensitive information, from events such as information security attacks,
unauthorized access or entry, fire, natural disasters, power loss, building
cooling loss, acts of war or terrorism, sabotage, vandalism, actions of
neighbours and other events. The protection and effective organization
of our systems, applications and information repositories are central to
the secure and continuous operation of our networks and business, as
electronic and physical records of proprietary business and personal
data, such as confidential customer and employee information, are all
sensitive from a market and privacy perspective.
Information security breaches can result from deliberate or unintended
actions by a growing number of sophisticated actors, including hackers,
organized criminals, state-sponsored organizations and other parties.
Information security attacks have grown in complexity, magnitude and
frequency in recent years and the potential for damage is increasing.
Information security attacks may be perpetrated using a complex
array of ever evolving and changing means including, without limitation,
the use of stolen credentials, social engineering, computer viruses
and malicious software, phishing and other attacks on network and
information systems. Information security attacks aim to achieve
various malicious objectives including unauthorized access to, ransom/
encryption of, and theft of, confidential, proprietary, sensitive or personal
information, as well as extortion and business disruptions.
We are also exposed to information security threats as a result of actions
that may be taken by our customers, suppliers, outsourcers, business
partners, employees or independent third parties, whether malicious
or not, including as a result of the use of social media, cloud-based
solutions and IT consumerization. Our use of third-party suppliers and
outsourcers and reliance on business partners, which may similarly
be subject to information security threats, also expose us to risks as
we have less immediate oversight over their IT domains. Furthermore,
the introduction of 5G, cloud computing and the proliferation of data
services, including mobile TV, mobile commerce, mobile banking
and IoT applications, as well as increased digitization and the use
or misuse of emerging technologies such as AI, robotics and smart
contracts leveraging blockchain for digital certification, have significantly
increased the threat surface of our networks and systems, resulting in
higher complexity that needs to be carefully monitored and managed to
minimize security threats. Failure to implement an information security
program that efficiently considers relationships and interactions with
business partners, suppliers, customers, employees and other third
parties across all methods of communication, including social media and
cloud-based solutions, could adversely affect our ability to successfully
defend against information security attacks.

Our
people

Our financial
resources

Changes in behaviour further to the COVID-19 pandemic as well as recent
geopolitical events have further increased our exposure to information
security threats. Remote work arrangements of our employees and those
of our suppliers have increased remote connectivity to our systems
and the potential use of unauthorized communications technologies.
In addition, we have seen an increase in global criminal activity, which
further pressures our security environment.
If information security threats were to become successful attacks
resulting in information security breaches, they could harm our brand,
reputation and competitiveness, decrease customer and investor
confidence and adversely affect our business, financial results, stock
price and long-term shareholder value, given that they could lead to:

• Network operating failures and business disruptions, which could
negatively impact our ability to sell products and services to our
customers and adversely affect their ability to maintain normal
business operations and deliver critical services, and/or the ability
of third-party suppliers to deliver critical services to us

• Unauthorized access to, and use of, proprietary or sensitive information,

which could result in lost revenue, diminished competitive advantages,
challenges in retaining or attracting customers after an incident and
loss of future business opportunities

• Theft, loss, unauthorized disclosure, destruction, encryption or

corruption of data and confidential information, including personal
information about our customers or employees, that could result
in financial loss, exposure to claims for damages by customers,
employees and others, extortion threats due to ransomware and
difficulty in accessing materials to defend legal actions

• Physical damage to network assets impacting service continuity
• Fines and sanctions for failure to meet legislative requirements or

MD&A Business risks

Our customers
and relationships

9

Our
networks

from credit card providers for failing to comply with payment card
industry data security standards for protection of cardholder data

• Increased fraud as criminals leverage stolen information against our
customers, our employees or our company

• Remediation costs such as liability for stolen information, equipment
repair and service recovery, and incentives to customers or business
partners in an effort to maintain relationships after an incident

• Increased information security protection costs, including the costs of
deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training
and monitoring employees, and engaging third-party security experts
and auditors

• Changes in the terms, conditions and pricing of customer, supplier
and financial contracts and agreements that we may have

149

In light of the evolving nature and sophistication of information security
threats, our information security policies, procedures and controls must
continuously adapt and evolve in order to seek to mitigate risk and,
consequently, require constant monitoring to ensure effectiveness.
However, given the complexity and scale of our business, network
infrastructure, technology and IT supporting systems, there can be no
assurance that the security policies, procedures and controls that we
implement will be effective against all information security attacks. In
addition, there can be no assurance that any insurance we may have
will cover all or part of the costs, damages, liabilities or losses that
could result from the occurrence of any information security breach.
Failure to implement an effective data governance framework could
harm our brand and reputation, expose us to regulatory pressure
and penalties, constrain our competitive opportunities, and adversely
affect our business and financial results

9

MD&A Business risks

To achieve our purpose of advancing how Canadians connect with
each other and the world, we must preserve the social licence from our
customers and all Canadians to collect and use data in our operations. A
strong and consistently applied approach to data governance is critical
to maintaining that social licence, requiring us to focus on respecting
the privacy of our customers’ data and protecting such data against
information security threats. As our operations involve receiving,
processing and storing such proprietary business and personal data,
effective policies, procedures and controls must be implemented to
protect information systems and underlying data in accordance with
applicable privacy legislation. Failure to meet customer and employee
expectations regarding the appropriate use and protection of their data
could have negative reputational, business and financial consequences
for the company.

150

There has also been increased regulatory scrutiny over the use, collection,
and disclosure of personal information in Canada. We are subject to
various privacy legislation, such as Canada’s anti-spam legislation (CASL)
and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act,
as well as foreign privacy legislation via the mandatory flow-through
of privacy-related obligations by our customers, including those of the
General Data Protection Regulation (EU). Global and domestic regulation
around privacy and data practices are evolving rapidly and new or
amended privacy legislation has been proposed or adopted federally
and in a number of Canadian provincial jurisdictions with significant
obligations, limitations on the use of personal information, penalties
and short implementation horizons. Our data governance framework
must not only meet applicable privacy requirements, but also be able to
evolve for continuous improvement. Effective data governance is also a
component of good ESG practices, which are considered an increasingly
important measure of corporate performance and value creation.
Failure to implement an effective data governance framework
encompassing the protection and appropriate use of data across its
life cycle, and incorporating data governance as a core consideration
in our business initiatives and technology decisions, could harm our
brand, reputation and competitiveness, decrease customer and investor
confidence and adversely affect our business and financial results. It
could give rise to litigation, investigations, fines and liability for failure
to comply with increasingly stringent privacy legislation, as well as
increased audit and regulatory scrutiny that could divert resources
from business operations.

People
Our
people
Attracting, developing and retaining a diverse and talented team
capable of furthering our strategic imperatives and high-tech
transformation is essential to our success
Our business depends on the efforts, engagement and expertise of
our management and non-management employees and contractors,
who must be able to operate efficiently and safely based on their
responsibilities and the environment in which they are functioning.
Demand for highly skilled team members has intensified, as retiring
workers, varying levels of immigration, and an increase in remote-work
arrangements allowing more global competition have created an
even more competitive marketplace. This emphasizes the importance
of developing and maintaining a comprehensive and inclusive human
resources strategy and employee value proposition to adequately
compete for talent and to identify and secure high-performing
candidates for a broad range of job functions, roles and responsibilities.
In addition, an appropriately skilled and diversified pool of talent (as a
result of hiring, insourcing and reskilling) is essential to support evolving
business priorities in the context of an ongoing business transformation
impacting job nature and skill sets. Our objective to transform from a
telco to a techco requires a cultural change and a capacity to evolve,
and impacts our recruitment strategy and deployment of resources.
Failure to attract and appropriately train, motivate, remunerate or

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

deploy employees on initiatives that further our strategic imperatives
and high-tech transformation, or to efficiently replace departing
employees, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and
retain talent and drive performance across the organization. Shortages
of skilled labour could negatively affect our ability to implement our
strategic priorities, as well as sell our products and services and more
generally serve our customers.
Establishing a culture that drives inclusivity, employee engagement,
development and progression is essential to attract and retain talent.
In addition, employees are typically more engaged at work when their
value system aligns with their employer’s corporate values. We seek
to foster an inclusive, equitable and accessible workplace where team
members are valued, respected and supported, reflecting the diversity
of the communities we serve and our desire to provide team members
with the opportunity to reach their full potential. We further endeavour
to establish programs and provide resources to support team members
on a wide range of topics, including mental health services and support.
However, failure to establish robust programs to further these aspirations
could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain team members.
Failure to sufficiently address evolving employee expectations related
to our culture and value proposition could also adversely affect our
ability to attract and retain team members.

As we emerged from the COVID-19 pandemic, we introduced our Bell
Workways program to help team members and leaders manage work,
family and other commitments by offering a new approach for our
workplace that allows flexibility for team members on how and where
they work, depending on their new designated role-based work profiles
(remote, mobile or full-time office). However, flexible work models
require a cultural shift that may impact business activities. Failure to
establish an optimal post-pandemic work arrangement conducive
to corporate performance and employee preference, and develop
new leadership skills necessary in the context of a new hybrid model,
could impair our ability to engage, motivate and retain employees,
impact productivity, increase the number of employees on disability
leave for mental health reasons, and introduce additional operational
risks or exacerbate our exposure to existing ones, which could impair
our ability to manage our business.
Other examples of people-related risks include the following:

• The increasing technical and operational complexity of our businesses
and the high demand in the market for skilled resources in strategic
areas create a challenging environment for hiring, retaining and
developing such skilled resources

• Failure to establish a complete and effective succession plan, including

preparation of internal talent and identification of potential external
candidates, where relevant, for senior executive and other key roles,
could impair our business until qualified replacements are found

• Ensuring the health and safety of our workforce operating in different

environments, including manholes, telephone poles, cell towers,
vehicles, foreign news bureaus and war zones, and/or in times of
pandemic, requires focus, effective processes and flexibility to avoid
injury, illness, service interruption, fines and reputational impact

• Potential deterioration in employee morale and engagement resulting

from staff reductions, cost reductions or reorganizations could
adversely affect our business and financial results

Challenges related to collective agreements could adversely affect
our business
Approximately 42% of BCE employees were represented by unions
and were covered by collective agreements at December 31, 2023.
The positive engagement of members of our team represented by
unions is contingent on negotiating collective agreements that deliver
competitive labour conditions and uninterrupted service, both of which
are critical to achieving our business objectives.
We cannot predict the outcome of collective agreement negotiations.
Renewal of collective agreements could result in higher labour costs
and be challenging in the context of a declining workload due to
transformation, a maturing footprint, improved efficiencies and adverse
government or regulatory decisions. If during the bargaining process
there were to be project delays and work disruptions, including work
stoppages or work slowdowns, this could adversely affect service to
our customers and, in turn, our customer relationships and financial
performance.

Operational performance
Our financial
resources

Our networks and IT systems are the foundation of high-quality
consistent services, which are critical to meeting service expectations
Our ability to provide high-quality and consistent wireless, wireline
and media services to customers in a complex and changing operating
environment is crucial for sustained success. It is therefore essential
that we continuously refine our operating model in order to accelerate
our transition from a telco to a techco, and meet customer expectations
of product and service experience at a desired cost structure.
Network capacity demands for content offerings and other bandwidthintensive applications on our wireline and wireless networks have been
growing at unprecedented rates. Unexpected capacity pressures on
our networks may negatively affect our network performance and our
ability to provide services. Evolving customer behaviour and their use of
our networks, products and services have created increased capacity
pressure on certain areas of our wireless, wireline and broadcast
media networks, and there can be no certainty that our networks will
continue to sustain such increased usage. In addition, we may need
to incur significant capital expenditures in order to provide additional
capacity and reduce network congestion. Network performance and/or
reliability may vary depending on the location and the recent trend for
families to move from urban centres to less urbanized areas increases
the need to develop and/or enhance our networks in areas that were
not previously served or that were underserved.
Customers and other stakeholders expect that we deliver reliable service
performance, enabled by our networks and other infrastructure, as well
as the networks and other infrastructure of third-party providers on
which we rely. Issues relating to network availability, speed, consistency

and traffic management on our more current as well as our legacy
networks could adversely affect our customers, including by preventing
the provisioning of critical services, and could have an adverse impact
on our business, reputation and financial performance. Furthermore,
we may need to manage the possibility of instability in the context
of our transformation initiatives, including as we transition towards
converged wireline and wireless networks and newer technologies,
including software-defined networks leveraging open source software
and cloud services. Network failures and slowdowns, whether caused
by internal or external forces, human-caused error or threat, or external
events, could adversely affect our brand and reputation, subscriber
acquisition and retention as well as our financial results. While we invest
in the resiliency of our networks and other infrastructure and establish
response strategies and business continuity protocols to seek to maintain
service consistency, there is no assurance that such investments and
protocols will be sufficient to prevent network failure or the failure
of other infrastructure, or a disruption in the delivery of our services.

MD&A Business risks

Our products
and services

9

Our
networks

In addition, we currently use a very large number of interconnected
internal and third-party operational and business support systems for
provisioning, networking, distribution, broadcast management, ordering,
billing and accounting, which may hinder our operational efficiency.
If we fail to implement, maintain or manage highly effective IT systems
supported by an effective governance and operating framework, and
implement transformation initiatives to streamline and integrate our
processes and systems, this may lead to inconsistent performance
and dissatisfied customers, which over time could result in higher
churn. It may also limit our cross-sell capabilities across our portfolio
of products and services.

151

Further examples of risks to operational performance that could impact
our reputation, business operations and financial performance include
the following:

• The current global economic environment as well as geopolitical events
may bring about further incremental costs, delays or unavailability of
equipment, materials and resources, which may impact our ability to
maintain or upgrade our networks in order to accommodate increased
network usage and to provide the desired levels of customer service

• Failure to maintain required service delivery amid operational

challenges (including those related to targeted cost savings initiatives,
flexible work models and the availability of employees with the required
skill set) and a transformation of our infrastructure and technology
could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial results

• We may lose sales should we fail to maximize channel efficiencies,
which could adversely affect our financial results

• Corporate restructurings, system replacements and upgrades, process

redesigns, staff reductions and the integration of business acquisitions
may not deliver the benefits contemplated, or be completed when
expected, and could adversely impact our ongoing operations

• Failure to streamline our significant IT legacy system portfolio and

proactively improve operating performance could adversely affect
our business and financial results

• We may experience more service interruptions or outages due to

legacy infrastructure. In some cases, vendor support is no longer
available or legacy vendor operations have ceased.

• There may be a lack of replacement parts and competent and

cost-effective resources to perform the life cycle management and
upgrades necessary to maintain the operational status of legacy
networks and IT systems

9

MD&A Business risks

• Climate change increases the probability, frequency, intensity and

length of severe weather-related events such as ice, snow and wind
storms, wildfires, flooding, extended heat waves, hurricanes, tornadoes
and tsunamis, all of which could impact network availability and
performance and drive more repairs of network equipment

Our operations and business continuity depend on how well we
protect, test, maintain, replace and upgrade our networks, IT systems,
equipment and other facilities
Our operations, service performance, reputation, business continuity
and strategy depend on how well we and our contracted product and
service providers, as well as other telecommunications carriers on
which we rely to provide services, protect our or their networks and
IT systems, as well as other infrastructure and facilities, from events
such as information security attacks, unauthorized access or entry,

fire, natural disasters, power loss, building cooling loss, acts of war or
terrorism, sabotage, vandalism, actions of neighbours and other events.
Climate change, especially in areas of greater environmental sensitivity,
could heighten the occurrence of certain of the above-mentioned risks.
We must also manage business continuity issues caused by internal
sources, including human error, human-caused threats and inefficiencies.
Establishing response strategies and business continuity protocols
to maintain service consistency if any disruptive event materializes
is critical to the achievement of effective customer service. Any of
the above-mentioned events, as well as the failure by us, or by other
telecommunications carriers on which we rely to provide services,
to adequately complete planned and sufficient testing, maintenance,
replacement or upgrade of our or their networks, equipment and
other facilities, which is, among other factors, dependent on our or
their ability to purchase equipment and services from third-party
suppliers, could disrupt our operations (including through disruptions
such as network and other infrastructure failures, billing errors or
delays in customer service), require significant resources and result
in significant remediation costs, which in turn could have an adverse
effect on our business and financial performance, or impair our ability
to keep existing subscribers or attract new ones.
In addition, the current global economic environment as well as
geopolitical events may bring about further incremental costs, delays
or unavailability of equipment, materials and resources, which could
impact our operations and business continuity strategies.
Satellites used to provide our satellite TV services are subject to
significant operational risks that could have an adverse effect on
our business and financial performance
Pursuant to a set of commercial arrangements between ExpressVu
and Telesat Canada (Telesat), we currently have satellites under
contract with Telesat. Telesat operates or directs the operation of these
satellites, which utilize highly complex technology and operate in the
harsh environment of space and are therefore subject to significant
operational risks while in orbit. These risks include in-orbit equipment
failures, malfunctions and other problems, commonly referred to as
anomalies, that could reduce the commercial usefulness of a satellite
used to provide our satellite TV services. Acts of war or terrorism,
magnetic, electrostatic or solar storms, or space debris or meteoroids
could also damage such satellites. Any loss, failure, manufacturing defect,
damage or destruction of these satellites, of our terrestrial broadcasting
infrastructure or of Telesat’s tracking, telemetry and control facilities
to operate the satellites could have an adverse effect on our business
and financial performance and could result in customers terminating
their subscriptions to our satellite TV service.

Financial management
Our
networks

Our products
and services

Our financial
resources

If we are unable to raise the capital we need or generate sufficient
cash flows from operating activities, we may need to limit our capital
expenditures or our investments in new businesses, or try to raise
capital by disposing of assets
Our ability to meet our cash requirements, fund capital expenditures
and provide for planned growth depends on having access to adequate
sources of capital and on our ability to generate cash flows from
operating activities, which is subject to various risks, including those
described in this MD&A.

152

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Our ability to raise financing depends on our ability to access the
public equity and debt capital markets, the money market, as well as
the bank credit market. Our ability to access such markets and the cost
and amount of funding available depend largely on prevailing market
conditions and the outlook for our business and credit ratings at the
time capital is raised.
Risk factors such as capital market disruptions, political, economic and
financial market instability in Canada or abroad, government policies,
central bank monetary policies, increasing interest rates, changes
to bank capitalization or other regulations, reduced bank lending in

Global financial markets have experienced, and could again experience,
significant volatility and weakness as a result of market disruptions,
including relating to the economy and geopolitical events. The current
global economic environment could continue to negatively impact equity
and debt capital markets, cause interest rate and currency volatility
and movements, and adversely affect our ability to raise financing in
the public capital, bank credit and/or commercial paper markets as
well as the cost thereof. Additionally, the negative impact of the global
economic environment and potential recession, elevated inflation and
high interest rates on our customers’ financial condition could adversely
affect our ability to recover payment of receivables from customers and
lead to further increases in bad debts, thereby negatively affecting our
revenues and cash flows, as well as our position under our securitized
receivables program.
Differences between BCE’s actual or anticipated financial results and
the published expectations of financial analysts, as well as events
affecting our business or operating environment, may contribute to
volatility in the market price of BCE’s securities. A major decline in the
capital markets in general, or an adjustment in the market price or
trading volumes of BCE’s securities, may negatively affect our ability
to raise debt or equity capital, retain senior executives and other key
employees, make strategic acquisitions or enter into joint ventures.
If we cannot access the capital we need or generate cash flows to
implement our business plan or meet our financial obligations on
acceptable terms, we may have to limit our ongoing capital expenditures
and our investment in new businesses or try to raise additional capital
by selling or otherwise disposing of assets. Any of these could have
an adverse effect on our cash flows from operating activities and on
our growth prospects.

Increases in the BCE common share dividend and the declaration
of dividends on any of BCE’s outstanding shares are subject to the
discretion of the BCE Board and, consequently, there can be no
guarantee that the dividend on common shares will be increased
or that dividends will be declared. Dividend increases and the
declaration of dividends by the BCE Board are ultimately dependent
on BCE’s operations and financial results which are, in turn, subject to
various assumptions and risks, including those set out in this MD&A.
The failure to reduce costs, unexpected increases in costs and the
failure to optimize capital spending, could adversely affect our
ability to achieve our strategic imperatives and financial guidance
Our objective to lower our cost structure continues to be aggressive
with a company-wide focus on cost transformation and reduction,
but there is no assurance that we will be successful in reducing costs.
Examples of risks to our ability to reduce costs or limit potential cost
increases include the following:

• Inflation could continue to result in higher input costs for equipment,

products and services, and create increased pressure for wage
increases

• Increased costs related to geopolitical events, in particular as they

impact our supply chain, could continue for an undetermined period
of time

• Increasing or prevailing high interest rates could continue to negatively
impact our cost of financing

• Our cost reduction objectives require aggressive negotiations with
our suppliers and there can be no assurance that such negotiations
will be successful or that replacement products or services provided
will not lead to operational issues

• As suppliers continue to shorten software life cycles, the cost of seeking
to maintain adequate information security increases

• Achieving timely cost reductions while moving to an IP-based network
is dependent on disciplined network decommissioning, which can
be delayed by customer contractual commitments, regulatory
considerations and other unforeseen obstacles

• Failure to contain growing operational costs related to network sites,

network performance and resiliency, footprint expansion, spectrum
licences, insurance and content and equipment acquisition could have
a negative effect on our financial performance

MD&A Business risks

Our bank credit facilities, including credit facilities supporting our
commercial paper program, are provided by various financial institutions.
While it is our intention to renew certain of such credit facilities from time
to time, there are no assurances that these facilities will be renewed
on favourable terms or in similar amounts.

We cannot guarantee that dividends will be increased or declared

9

general or fewer banks as a result of reduced activity or consolidation,
could reduce capital available or increase the cost of such capital. In
addition, an increased level of debt borrowings could result in lower
credit ratings, increased borrowing costs and a reduction in the amount
of funding available to us, including through equity offerings. Business
acquisitions and our acquisition of wireless spectrum licences could
also adversely affect our outlook and credit ratings and have similar
adverse consequences. There is no assurance that we will maintain
our credit ratings and a ratings downgrade could result in adverse
consequences for our funding cost and capacity, and our ability to
access the capital markets, money market and/or the bank credit market.
In addition, participants in the public capital and bank credit markets
have internal policies limiting their ability to invest in, or extend credit
to, any single entity or entity group or a particular industry. Finally, with
increasing emphasis by the capital markets on ESG performance and
reporting, there is a potential for the cost and availability of funding
to be increasingly tied to the quality of our ESG practices and related
disclosed metrics.

• In addition to the potential impact from the global economic

environment and geopolitical events, fluctuations in energy prices
are further partly influenced by government policies to address climate
change such as carbon pricing which, combined with growing data
demand that increases our energy requirements, could increase our
energy costs beyond our current expectations

• Failure to successfully deliver on our contractual commitments, whether
due to security events, operational challenges or other reasons, may
result in financial penalties and loss of revenues

In addition, as part of our business operations and transformation
initiatives, it is essential that we optimize capital spending and ensure
appropriate trade-offs in our capital allocation. However, should we
fail to adequately assess investment priorities and optimal trade-offs,
our business and financial results could be negatively affected.

153

We are exposed to various credit, liquidity and market risks
Our exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks, including equity price,
interest rate and currency fluctuations, is discussed in section 6.5,
Financial risk management of this MD&A and in Note 29 to BCE’s 2023
consolidated financial statements.
Our failure to identify and manage our exposure to changes in interest
rates, foreign exchange rates, BCE’s share price and other market
conditions could lead to missed opportunities, increased costs, reduced
profit margins, cash flow shortages, inability to complete planned
capital expenditures, reputational damage, equity and debt securities
devaluations, and challenges in raising capital on market-competitive
terms.
The failure to evolve practices to effectively monitor and control
fraudulent activities could result in financial loss and brand
degradation

Specific examples relevant to us include:

The funding requirements of our post-employment benefit plans, based
on valuations of plan assets and obligations, depend on a number of
factors, including actual returns on post-employment benefit plan
assets, long-term interest rates, inflation, plan demographics including
longevity, and applicable regulations and actuarial standards. Changes
in these factors, including changes caused by the current global
economic environment and recent geopolitical events, could cause
future contributions to significantly differ from our current estimates,
require us to increase contributions to our post-employment benefit
plans in the future and, therefore, have a negative effect on our liquidity
and financial performance.

• Unauthorized individuals taking over someone else’s online account
MD&A Business risks

The economic environment, pension rules or ineffective governance
could have an adverse effect on our pension obligations, and we
may be required to increase contributions to our post-employment
benefit plans
With a large pension plan membership and DB pension plans that
are subject to the pressures of the global economic environment
and changing regulatory and reporting requirements, our pension
obligations are exposed to potential volatility. Failure to recognize and
manage economic exposure and pension rule changes, or to ensure
that effective governance is in place for the management and funding
of pension plan assets and obligations, could have an adverse impact
on our liquidity and financial performance.

the exclusivity of Bell Media’s content offerings, which could divert
users to unlicensed or otherwise illegitimate platforms, thus impacting
our ability to derive distribution and advertising revenues

9

We base our estimates on a number of factors, including but not
limited to historical experience, current events, and actions that the
company may undertake in the future, as well as other assumptions
that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. A change in
these assumptions may have an impact on our financial statements
including but not limited to impairment testing, fair value determination,
expected credit losses and discount rates used for the present value of
cash flows. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject
to measurement uncertainty and actual results could differ.

As a public company with a range of desirable and valuable products
and services and a large number of employees, BCE requires a
disciplined program covering governance, exposure identification
and assessment, prevention, detection and reporting that considers
corruption, misappropriation of assets and intentional manipulation of
financial statements by employees and/or external parties. The current
global economic environment could further lead to increased fraud
activities, which could result in financial loss and brand degradation.

• Copyright theft and other forms of unauthorized use that undermine

without the account owner‘s permission to gain access to wireless
products and goods via various means (social engineering, phishing,
smishing, etc.)

• Subscription fraud where fraudsters use their own, a stolen or a

synthetic identity to obtain mobile devices and services with no
intention to pay

• Network usage fraud such as call/sell operations using our wireline

or wireless networks or incidents related to network components
such as copper theft

• Ongoing efforts to steal the services of TV distributors, including Bell
Canada and ExpressVu, through compromise or circumvention of
signal security systems, causing revenue loss

Income and commodity tax amounts may materially differ from the
expected amounts
Our complex business operations are subject to various tax laws. The
adoption of new tax laws, or regulations or rules thereunder, or changes
thereto or in the interpretation thereof, could result in higher tax rates,
new taxes or other adverse tax implications. In addition, while we believe
that we have adequately provided for all income and commodity taxes
based on all of the information that is currently available, the calculation
of income taxes and the applicability of commodity taxes in many cases
require significant judgment in interpreting tax rules and regulations. Our
tax filings are subject to government audits that could result in material
changes to the amount of current and deferred income tax assets and
liabilities and other liabilities and could, in certain circumstances, result
in an assessment of interest and penalties.

154

A number of factors could impact our financial statements and
estimates

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

There is no assurance that the assets of our post-employment benefit
plans will earn their assumed rate of return. A substantial portion of our
post-employment benefit plans’ assets is invested in public and private
equity and debt securities. As a result, the ability of our post-employment
benefit plans’ assets to earn the rate of return that we have assumed
depends significantly on the performance of capital markets. Market
conditions also impact the discount rate used to calculate our pension
plan solvency obligations and could therefore also significantly affect
our cash funding requirements.

Vendor management/supply chain
Our products
and services

We depend on third-party suppliers, outsourcers and consultants,
some of which are critical, to provide an uninterrupted supply of
the products and services we need, as well as comply with various
obligations
We depend on key third-party suppliers and outsourcers, over which we
have no operational or financial control, for products and services, some
of which are critical to our operations. If there are gaps in our vendor
selection, governance or oversight processes established to seek to
ensure full risk transparency at point of purchase and throughout the
relationship, including any contract renegotiations, there is the potential
for a breakdown in supply, which could impact our ability to make sales,
service customers and achieve our business and financial objectives.
In addition, any such gaps could result in suboptimal management of
our vendor base, increased costs and missed opportunities. Ongoing
relationships must further be adequately managed in order to address
existing and new operational and compliance requirements. Some
of our third-party suppliers and outsourcers are located in foreign
countries, which increases the potential for a breakdown in supply
due to the risks of operating in foreign jurisdictions with different
laws, geopolitical environments and cultures, as well as the potential
for localized natural disasters. Concerns related to geopolitical events
could put pressure on our supply chain and require increased focus
on supply chain diversification to support continuity.
We may have to select different third-party suppliers for equipment or
other products and services, or different outsourcers, in order to meet
evolving internal company policies and guidelines as well as regulatory
requirements. Should we decide, or be required by a governmental
authority or otherwise, to terminate our relationship with an existing
supplier or outsourcer, this would decrease the number of available
suppliers or outsourcers and could result in significant increased costs,
as well as transitional, support, service, quality or continuity issues;
delay our ability to deploy new network and other technologies and
offer new products and services; and adversely affect our business
and financial results.
The use of third-party suppliers and the outsourcing of services generally
involve transfer of risks, and we must take appropriate steps to ensure
that our suppliers’ and outsourcers’ approach to risk management
is aligned with our own standards in order to maintain continuity of
supply and brand strength. Increased focus on supplier risks in areas
of security, data governance, responsible procurement and broader
ESG factors requires increased attention given that supplier actions
or omissions could have significant impacts on our business, financial
results, brand and reputation. Furthermore, cloud-based supplier
models have continued to evolve and grow and, while they offer many
potential benefits, cloud-based services can also change the level or
types of risks. Accordingly, our procurement and vendor management
practices must also continue to evolve to fully take into account the
potential risks of cloud-based services.

Our
environment

Our financial
resources

In addition, certain company initiatives rely heavily on professional
consulting services provided by third parties, and a failure of such
third-party services may not be reasonably evident until their work is
delivered or delayed. Difficulties in implementing remedial strategies
in respect of professional consulting services provided by third parties
that are not performed in a proper or timely fashion could result in
an adverse effect on our ability to comply with various obligations,
including applicable legal and accounting requirements.
Other examples of risks associated with third-party suppliers and
outsourcers include the following:

• We rely upon the successful implementation and execution of business

continuity plans by our product and service suppliers. To the extent
that such plans do not successfully mitigate the impacts of the
current global economic environment, geopolitical events or other
events, and our suppliers or vendors experience operational failures
or inventory constraints, such failures or constraints could result in,
or amplify existing, supply chain disruptions that could adversely
affect our business. Incremental costs, delays or unavailability of
equipment, materials, products or services, as well as unavailability
of our suppliers’ or contractors’ employees due to strikes, workforce
reduction initiatives or other factors, could impact sales and execution
of our strategic imperatives and adversely affect our business and
financial results.

• The current global economic environment and recent geopolitical
events have given rise to inflationary pressures and sharp increases
in prices, which could put increased pressure on purchasing costs

• The insolvency of one or more of our suppliers could cause a
breakdown in supply and have an adverse effect on our operations,
including our ability to make sales or service customers, as well as
on our financial results

• Demand for products and services available from only a limited number

of suppliers, some of which dominate their global market, may lead to
decreased availability, increased costs or delays in the delivery of such
products and services, since suppliers may choose to favour global
competitors that are larger than we are and, accordingly, purchase
a larger volume of products and services. In addition, production
issues or geopolitical events affecting any such suppliers, or other
suppliers, could result in decreased quantities or a total lack of supply
of products or services. Any of these events could adversely impact
our ability to meet customer commitments and demand.

MD&A Business risks

Our customers
and relationships

9

Our
networks

• A suboptimal outsourcing model could result in the loss of key corporate

knowledge, reduced efficiency and effectiveness, and impede agile
delivery of new products or technology

• Cloud-based solutions may increase the risk of security and data

leakage exposure if security control protocols and configurations
implemented by our cloud-based partners or suppliers, or by us
where we retain responsibility for such protocols, are inadequate

• If existing suppliers do not have appropriate alternative cloud-based

products or services, our ability to complete desired migrations to the
cloud could be limited or delayed

• Failure to maintain strong discipline around vendor administration

(especially around initial account setup) may mask potential financial
or operational risks and complicate future problem resolutions

155

• If products and services important to our operations have

manufacturing defects or do not comply with applicable government
regulations and standards (including product safety practices), our
ability to sell products and provide services on a timely basis may be
negatively impacted. We work with our suppliers to seek to identify
serious product defects (including safety incidents) and develop
appropriate remedial strategies, which may include a recall of products.
To the extent that a supplier does not actively participate in, and/or
bear primary financial responsibility for, a recall of its products, our
ability to perform such recall programs at a reasonable cost and/or
in a timely fashion may be negatively impacted. Any of the events
referred to above could have an adverse effect on our business,
reputation and financial results.

• Products (including software) and services supplied to us may contain
security issues including, but not limited to, latent security issues that
would not be apparent upon an inspection. Should we or a supplier
fail to correct a security issue in a timely fashion, there could be an
adverse effect on our business, reputation and financial results.

• We rely on other telecommunications carriers from time to time to

deliver services. Should these carriers fail to roll out new networks or
fail to upgrade existing networks, or should their networks be affected
by operational failures or service interruptions, such issues could
adversely affect our ability to provide services using such carriers’
networks and could, consequently, have an adverse effect on our
business, reputation and financial results.

• BCE depends on call centre and technical support services provided

by a number of external suppliers and outsourcers, some of which are
located in foreign countries. These vendors have access to customer
and internal BCE information necessary for the support services that
they provide. Information access and service delivery issues that
are not managed appropriately may have an adverse impact on our
business, reputation, the quality and speed of services provided to
customers, or our ability to address technical issues.

Reputation and ESG practices
Our
networks

Our customers
and relationships

Our products
and services

9

MD&A Business risks

Our ability to maintain positive customer relationships is significantly
influenced by our reputation
Many customers’ choice to purchase our products and services is
directly related to their perception of our company. Accordingly, our
ability to maintain positive customer relationships and acquire or retain
customers is significantly influenced by our reputation. The company
faces many sources of reputational risks, as discussed in this MD&A.
Should our perceived or actual outlook, plans, priorities or actions, or
those of our employees or suppliers, fail to align with stakeholders’
expectations, our reputation could be impacted, which could have an
adverse effect on our brand, our ability to retain or attract customers,
and more generally on our business, financial condition, liquidity and
financial results.
There is no assurance that we will succeed in meaningfully integrating
ESG considerations into our business strategy and operations to
generate a positive outcome for stakeholders
While we seek to understand the evolving ESG environment and
identify topics and activities that may expose us to ESG risks, there
is no assurance that we will succeed in meaningfully integrating ESG
considerations into our business strategy and operations to generate
positive outcomes for stakeholders. Good ESG practices are an important
measure of corporate performance and value creation. As such, we
are increasingly under scrutiny to address ESG matters of importance
to our stakeholders. A wide range of ESG topics have progressively
become important elements of corporate culture and seeking to embrace
them reinforces our value proposition to drive employee attraction and
retention. Customers now factor broader considerations into purchase
decisions and look for alignment of personal values with corporate
behaviour. Investors increasingly link investment decisions to the quality
of ESG practices and related disclosed metrics. Moreover, we have
directly linked some pricing elements in certain financing agreements
to our performance on key ESG targets. Legal and regulatory pressures
have further intensified in the ESG sphere, including, without limitation,

156

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Our
environment

Our
people

in the areas of privacy, accessibility, data governance, climate change
and diversity. Accordingly, failure to integrate ESG considerations
into our governance activities and effectively manage ESG risks and
opportunities could harm our brand and reputation, and could lead to
negative business, financial, legal and regulatory consequences for
the company. Perceived misalignment of our actions with stakeholder
expectations could also harm our brand and reputation and lead to
further financial and other consequences. Finally, enhanced ESG-related
disclosures could increase the company’s exposure to claims for
misrepresentation in the primary or secondary market.
Failure to take appropriate actions to adapt to current and emerging
environmental impacts, including climate change, could have an
adverse effect on our business
We face risks related to environmental events, including climate-related
events, which could impact our operations, service performance,
reputation and business continuity, cost of insurance, and more generally
have an adverse effect on our business, financial performance and
reputation. In particular, climate change poses potential risks to our
business, our employees, our customers, our suppliers and outsourcers,
and the communities we operate in. Inadequate management of
environmental issues associated with our company and our business,
as well as our suppliers and other stakeholders, could also adversely
affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, financial results and
reputation given the implications for the company as well as various
stakeholders.

climate and can either be event-driven (acute) or longer-term (chronic)
shifts in climate patterns. Global scientific evidence suggests that
climate change will increase both the frequency and severity of
extreme weather events. This will include such events as flooding, ice
storms and wildfires, among others. These could have a destructive
impact on our communications network infrastructure and in turn
affect our ability to deliver services that are critical to our customers
and society. A service disruption due to extreme weather events
could lead to financial impacts including an increase in operating
costs from maintenance and repairs, labour, heating and cooling,
and equipment damage. Our insurance premiums could increase, or
we could face reduced insurability in high risk areas. Furthermore,
this could jeopardize customer satisfaction and may result in a
decrease in revenues. In addition, if average temperatures where
we are operating are warmer or cooler year-over-year for longer
periods of time, there will be an increasing need for cooling or heating
capacity in our facilities. This will increase our energy consumption
and associated operational costs. Furthermore, in order to remain
resilient to these increasing or decreasing temperatures, we would
need to increase our investments in our infrastructure, again leading
to increased operational costs.

• Transition risks are associated with a transition to a lower-carbon

economy, which may include extensive regulatory, technology
and market changes to address mitigation and adaptation
requirements related to climate change. These risks may include
increased operational costs driven by the rising price of energy due
to carbon pricing regulations and the shifting supply and demand for
energy, increased operational costs related to e-waste treatment
programs and management systems, reputational risks related to
our management of climate-related issues as well as to our level of
disclosure related to such matters. There is also a reputational risk of
not demonstrating our proactive behaviour towards climate change,
which could affect customer perception and the cost and availability
of funding that has the potential to be increasingly tied to the quality
of our ESG practices and related disclosed metrics, all of which could
have negative financial outcomes.

Furthermore, climate-related events could also impact our suppliers
and outsourcers, which in turn could impact our business. Given that
some of our third-party suppliers and outsourcers are located in foreign
countries that are more at risk of experiencing weather-related events,
localized natural disasters in such countries could further negatively
impact our business.
In addition, several areas of our operations raise other environmental
considerations, such as fuel storage, GHG emissions and energy
consumption reduction, waste management, disposal of hazardous
residual materials, recovery and recycling of end-of-life electronic
products we sell or lease, and other network associated impacts
(e.g., treated wood poles, manhole effluents, lead cables, etc.).
Our team members, customers, investors and governments expect that
we regard environmental protection as an integral part of doing business
and that we seek to minimize the negative environmental impacts of
our operations and create positive impacts where possible. Failure to
recognize and adequately respond to their evolving expectations, to take

Pandemics, epidemics and other health risks, including health concerns
about radiofrequency emissions from wireless communications
devices and equipment, could have an adverse effect on our business
Health concerns related to COVID-19 still give rise to uncertainties,
and resurgences in new COVID-19 cases and/or the emergence and
progression of new variants could cause governments to reintroduce
restrictive measures. Other pandemics, epidemics and health risks
could also occur, any of which could adversely affect our ability to
maintain operational networks and provide products and services
to our customers, as well as the ability of our suppliers to provide us
with products and services we need to operate our business. Any such
pandemics, epidemics and other health risks could have an adverse
effect on the economy and financial markets resulting in a declining
level of retail and commercial activity, which could have a negative
impact on the demand for, and prices of, our products and services.
Many studies have been performed or are ongoing to assess whether
mobile communications devices, such as smartphones, as well as
wireless networks and towers pose a potential health risk. While some
studies suggest links to certain conditions, others conclude there is no
established causation between mobile phone usage and adverse health
effects. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) of the
World Health Organization classified radiofrequency electromagnetic
fields from wireless phones as possibly carcinogenic to humans, but
also indicated that chance, bias or confounding could not be ruled out
with reasonable confidence. The IARC also called for additional research
into long-term heavy use of mobile phones.
ISED is responsible for approving radiofrequency equipment and
performing compliance assessments and has chosen Health Canada’s
Safety Code 6, which sets the limits for safe exposure to radiofrequency
emissions at home or at work, as its exposure standard. This code
also outlines safety requirements for the installation and operation of
devices that emit radiofrequency fields such as mobile communications
devices, Wi-Fi technologies and base station antennas. ISED has
made compliance to Safety Code 6 mandatory for all proponents and
operators of radio installations.

MD&A Business risks

• Physical risks are associated with the physical impacts from a changing

action to reduce our negative impacts on the environment, to achieve
our environmental objectives and to effectively report on environmental
matters, could result in fines, and could harm our brand, reputation and
competitiveness, as well as lead to other negative business, financial,
legal and regulatory consequences for the company.

9

In alignment with the recommendations of the TCFD, we categorize
climate-related risks into physical and transition risks:

The following challenges, among others, could result from our business
being heavily dependent on radiofrequency technologies:

• We may face lawsuits relating to alleged adverse health effects on
customers, as well as relating to our marketing and disclosure practices
in connection therewith, and the likely outcome of such potential
lawsuits is unpredictable and could change over time

• Changes in scientific evidence and/or public perceptions could
lead to additional government regulations and costs for retrofitting
infrastructure and handsets to achieve compliance

• Public concerns could result in a slower deployment of, or in our inability
to deploy, infrastructure necessary to maintain and/or expand our
wireless network as required by market evolution

Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and
financial performance.

157

Various social issues, if not adequately managed, could have an
adverse effect on our business
Effective management of social risk is a component of good ESG
practices. Inadequate management of social issues associated with
our company and our business, as well as our suppliers and other
stakeholders, could adversely affect our business, financial condition,
liquidity, financial results and reputation. This may include social issues
discussed elsewhere in this MD&A such as DEIB, employees’ well-being,
health and safety, responsible procurement, as well as other social issues
such as human rights, including Indigenous peoples’ rights, consultation
and accommodation, and community acceptance and engagement.
Failure to sufficiently address and report on our management of social
issues and to achieve our social objectives could harm our brand and
reputation, and could lead to negative business, financial, legal and
regulatory consequences for the company.
There can be no assurance that our corporate governance practices
will be sufficient to prevent violations of legal and ethical standards

9

MD&A Business risks

Our employees, officers, Board members, suppliers and other business
partners are expected to comply with applicable legal and ethical
standards including, without limitation, anti-bribery laws, as well as
with our governance policies and contractual obligations. Failure to
comply with such laws, policies, standards and contractual obligations
could expose us to investigations or litigation and significant fines and
penalties, and result in reputational harm or being disqualified from
bidding on contracts. While we have developed and implemented
corporate governance practices, including through our Code of Business
Conduct which is updated regularly and subject to an annual review
by our team members, there can be no assurance that such practices
and measures will be sufficient to prevent violations of legal and ethical
standards. Any such failure or violation could have an adverse effect
on our business, financial performance and reputation.
Various factors could negatively impact our ability to achieve our
ESG targets
We have set a number of ambitious ESG targets to monitor our ESG
performance and align to our strategic imperatives. However, our
ability to achieve these targets depends on many factors and is subject
to many risks that could cause our assumptions or estimates to be
inaccurate and cause actual results or events to differ materially from
those expressed in, or implied by, these targets. Failure to sufficiently
address evolving employee, customer, investor and other stakeholder
expectations through achievement of our ESG targets could harm our
brand, reputation and competitiveness, as well as lead to other negative
business, financial, legal and regulatory consequences for the company.
Important risk factors that could affect certain of our key ESG targets
are set out below.
GHG emissions reduction and supplier engagement targets
The achievement of our carbon neutrality target (which includes only
our operational GHG emissions (scope 1 and 2) and excludes scope 3
GHG emissions) will require that we purchase a significant quantity of
carbon credits and/or RECs. Should a sufficient quantity of high-quality
credible carbon credits and/or RECs be unavailable, should their cost
of acquisition be considered too onerous, should laws, regulations,
applicable standards, public perception or other factors limit the
number of carbon credits or RECs that we can purchase, should any
purchased carbon credits be subject to reversal, in whole or in part, or
should the carbon offsets not materialize, the achievement of carbon
neutrality target could be negatively impacted.

158

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

The achievement of our science-based target related to our scope
1 and 2 GHG emissions will require that we purchase a significant
quantity of RECs. To achieve this science-based target, only RECs will be
considered given that the SBTi standards do not enable carbon credits
to be used for this target. Should a sufficient quantity of acceptable
(according to the SBTi guidelines) RECs be unavailable, should their cost
of acquisition be considered too onerous, or should laws, regulations,
applicable standards, public perception or other factors limit the number
of RECs that we can purchase, in whole or in part, the achievement of
our science-based target related to our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
could be negatively impacted.
A portion of our GHG emissions reduction targets also depend on our
ability to implement sufficient corporate and business initiatives in order
to reduce GHG emissions to the desired levels. Failure to implement such
initiatives according to planned schedules due to changes in business
plans, our inability to implement requisite operational or technological
changes, unavailability of capital, technologies, equipment or employees,
cost allocations, actual costs exceeding anticipated costs, or other
factors, or the failure of such initiatives, including of new technologies,
to generate anticipated GHG emissions reductions, could negatively
affect our ability to achieve our GHG emissions reduction targets. In
addition, future corporate initiatives, such as business acquisitions
and organic growth, could negatively affect our ability to achieve our
targets, as would the adoption of new technologies that are carbon
enablers or do not generate the anticipated energy savings.
A refinement in or modifications to international standards or to the
methodology we use for the calculation of GHG emissions that would
result in an increase in our GHG emissions could further impact our ability
to achieve our targets. In addition, as it relates to our science-based
targets specifically, the SBTi requires the recalculation of our targets
upon the occurrence of certain events, such as business acquisitions or
divestitures, or to conform to evolving SBTi methodology or standards.
A recalculation resulting in the introduction of more ambitious targets
could challenge our ability to achieve such updated targets.
The achievement of our science-based target relating to the level of our
suppliers by spend covering purchased goods and services that have
adopted science-based targets could be negatively impacted should we
fail to achieve the required level of engagement and collaboration from
our suppliers over which we have no control, despite the engagement
measures that we may implement, or should we change significantly
the allocation of our spend by supplier.
In addition, we have much less influence over the reduction of our
scope 3 GHG emissions than over our scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions
given that we must rely on the engagement and collaboration of our
suppliers and other participants in our value chain in reducing their
own GHG emissions. Accordingly, failure to obtain our suppliers’ and
other participants’ engagement and collaboration could adversely
affect our ability to meet our scope 3 GHG emissions reduction target.
DEIB targets
Failure to attract and retain a certain level of diverse talent across
the organization could negatively affect our ability to meet our DEIB
targets and objectives. In addition, our ability to achieve such targets
and objectives could also be challenged by reduced labour market
availability or restricted access to a diverse talent pool.

10 Accounting policies
This section discusses key estimates and assumptions that management has made and how they affect the amounts reported in the
financial statements and notes. It also describes key changes in accounting standards and our accounting policies, and how they affect
our financial statements.
We have prepared our consolidated financial statements using IFRS. Other significant accounting policies, not involving the same level of
measurement uncertainty as those discussed in this section, are nevertheless important to an understanding of our financial statements.
See Note 2, Material accounting policies, in BCE’s 2023 consolidated financial statements for more information about the accounting
principles we used to prepare our consolidated financial statements.

Critical accounting estimates and key judgments

We base our estimates on a number of factors, including but not limited
to historical experience, current events, economic and financial market
conditions such as interest rates, inflation and the risk of recession,
geopolitical events and supply chain disruptions, and actions that the
company may undertake in the future, as well as other assumptions
that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. A change in
these assumptions may have an impact on our financial statements
including but not limited to impairment testing, fair value determination,
expected credit losses and discount rates used for the present value of
cash flows. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject
to measurement uncertainty and actual results could differ. Our more
significant estimates and judgments are described below.
We consider the estimates and judgments described in this section to be
an important part of understanding our financial statements because
they require management to make assumptions about matters that
were highly uncertain at the time the estimates and judgments were
made, and changes to these estimates and judgments could have a
material impact on our financial statements and our segments.
Our senior management has reviewed the development and selection
of the critical accounting estimates and judgments described in this
section with the Audit Committee of the BCE Board.
Any sensitivity analysis included in this section should be used with
caution as the changes are hypothetical and the impact of changes in
each key assumption may not be linear.
Our more significant estimates and judgments are described below.

Estimates

useful lives of property, plant and equipment
and finite-life intangible assets
We review our estimates of the useful lives of property, plant and
equipment and finite-life intangible assets on an annual basis and
adjust depreciation or amortization on a prospective basis, as required.

post-employment benefit plans
The amounts reported in the financial statements relating to DB pension
plans and OPEBs are determined using actuarial calculations that are
based on several assumptions.
Our actuaries perform a valuation at least every three years to determine
the actuarial present value of the accrued DB pension plan and OPEB
obligations. The actuarial valuation uses management’s assumptions
for, among other things, the discount rate, life expectancy, the rate of
compensation increase, cost of living indexation rate, trends in healthcare
costs and expected average remaining years of service of employees.
While we believe that these assumptions are reasonable, differences
in actual results or changes in assumptions could materially affect
post-employment benefit obligations and future net post-employment
benefit plans cost.
We account for differences between actual and expected results
in benefit obligations and plan performance in OCI, which are then
recognized immediately in the deficit.
The most significant assumptions used to calculate the net postemployment benefit plans cost are the discount rate and life expectancy.

MD&A Accounting policies

• reported amounts of revenues and expenses
• reported amounts of assets and liabilities
• disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities

The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and finite-life
intangible assets are determined by internal asset life studies, which
take into account actual and expected future usage, physical wear and
tear, replacement history and assumptions about technology evolution.
When factors indicate that assets’ useful lives are different from the
prior assessment, we depreciate or amortize the remaining carrying
value prospectively over the adjusted estimated useful lives.

10

When preparing the financial statements, management makes estimates
and judgments relating to:

A discount rate is used to determine the present value of the future
cash flows that we expect will be needed to settle post-employment
benefit obligations.
The discount rate is based on the yield on long-term, high-quality
corporate fixed income investments, with maturities matching the
estimated cash flows of the post-employment benefit plans. Life
expectancy is based on publicly available Canadian mortality tables
and is adjusted for the company’s specific experience.
A lower discount rate and a higher life expectancy result in a higher net
post-employment benefit obligation and a higher current service cost.

Property, plant and equipment represent a significant proportion of
our total assets. Changes in technology or our intended use of these
assets, climate change and our environmental, social and corporate
governance initiatives as well as changes in business prospects or
economic and industry factors, may cause the estimated useful lives
of these assets to change.
159

Sensitivity analysis

The following table shows a sensitivity analysis of key assumptions used to measure the net post-employment benefit obligations and the net
post-employment benefit plans cost for our DB pension plans and OPEB plans.
Impact on net post-employment
benefit plans cost for 2023 –
increase/(decrease)
Change in
assumption

Increase in
assumption

decrease in
assumption

0.5%

(83)

78

(1,146)

1,255

0.5%

55

(46)

1,007

(822)

Life expectancy at age 65

1 year

38

(39)

714

(735)

For bundled arrangements, we account for individual products and
services when they are separately identifiable and the customer can
benefit from the product or service on its own or with other readily
available resources. The total arrangement consideration is allocated to
each product or service included in the contract with the customer based
on its stand-alone selling price. We generally determine stand-alone
selling prices based on the observable prices at which we sell products
separately without a service contract and prices for non-bundled
service offers with the same range of services, adjusted for market
conditions and other factors, as appropriate. When similar products
and services are not sold separately, we use the expected cost plus
margin approach to determine stand-alone selling prices. Products
and services purchased by a customer in excess of those included in
the bundled arrangement are accounted for separately.

Impairment of non-financial assets
MD&A Accounting policies

Increase in
assumption

Discount rate

We are required to make estimates that affect the amount of revenue
from contracts with customers, including estimating the stand-alone
selling prices of products and services.

10

decrease in
assumption

Cost of living indexation rate

revenue from contracts with customers

Goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets are tested for impairment
annually or when there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Property, plant and equipment and finite-life intangible assets are tested
for impairment if events or changes in circumstances, assessed at
each reporting period, indicate that their carrying amount may not be
recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets other than
goodwill are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately
identifiable cash inflows.
Impairment losses are recognized and measured as the excess of the
carrying value of the assets over their recoverable amount. An asset’s
recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal
and its value in use. Previously recognized impairment losses, other than
those attributable to goodwill, are reviewed for possible reversal at each
reporting date and, if the asset’s recoverable amount has increased,
all or a portion of the impairment is reversed.
We make a number of estimates when calculating recoverable amounts
using discounted future cash flows or other valuation methods to test
for impairment. These estimates include the assumed growth rates for
future cash flows, the number of years used in the cash flow model and
the discount rate. When impairment charges occur they are recorded
in Impairment of assets.

160

Impact on post-employment benefit
obligations at december 31, 2023 –
increase/(decrease)

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

During the fourth quarter of 2023, we recognized $86 million of
impairment charges for French TV channels within our Bell Media
segment. The impairment charges were the result of a reduction in
advertising demand in the industry resulting from economic uncertainties
and unfavourable impacts to market-based valuation assumptions.
These charges included $41 million allocated to indefinite-life intangible
assets for broadcast licences and brands, and $45 million to finite-life
intangible assets for program and feature film rights. The impairment
was determined by comparing the carrying value of the cash generating
units (CGUs) to their fair value less cost of disposal. We estimated the
fair value of the CGUs using both discounted cash flows and marketbased valuation models, which include five-year cash flow projections
derived from business plans reviewed by senior management for the
period of October 1, 2023 to December 31, 2028, using a discount rate
of 9.5% and a perpetuity growth rate of 0.0%. After impairments, the
carrying value of our impacted CGU was $62 million.
Additionally in 2023, we recorded impairment charges of $57 million
related mainly to right-of-use assets for certain office spaces we
ceased using as part of our real estate optimization strategy as a result
of our hybrid work policy.
There was no impairment of Bell Media goodwill.
During the fourth quarter of 2022, we recognized $147 million of
impairment charges for French TV channels within our Bell Media
segment. The impairment charges were the result of a reduction in
advertising demand in the industry resulting from economic uncertainties
and unfavourable impacts to assumptions for discount rates. These
charges included $94 million allocated to indefinite-life intangible assets
for broadcast licences, and $53 million to finite-life intangible assets for
program and feature film rights. The impairment was determined by
comparing the carrying value of the CGUs to their fair value less cost of
disposal. We estimated the fair value of the CGUs using the discounted
cash flow valuation models, which include five-year cash flow projections
derived from business plans reviewed by senior management for the
period of October 1, 2022 to December 31, 2027, using a discount rate
of 10.3% and a perpetuity growth rate of 0.5%. After impairments, the
carrying value of our impacted CGUs was $109 million.
Additionally in 2022, we recorded impairment charges of $132 million
related mainly to right-of-use assets for certain office spaces we
ceased using as part of our real estate optimization strategy as a result
of our hybrid work policy.

goodwill impairment testing

leases

We perform an annual test for goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter
for each of our CGUs or groups of CGUs to which goodwill is allocated,
and whenever there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.

The application of IFRS 16 requires us to make estimates that affect the
measurement of right-of-use assets and liabilities, including determining
the appropriate discount rate used to measure lease liabilities. Lease
liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the lease payments
that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using our
incremental borrowing rate, unless the rate implicit in the lease is
readily determinable. Our incremental borrowing rate is derived from
publicly available risk-free interest rates, adjusted for applicable credit
spreads and lease terms. We apply a single incremental borrowing rate
to a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics.

An impairment charge is recognized in Impairment of assets in the
income statements for any excess of the carrying value of goodwill
over its recoverable amount. For purposes of impairment testing of
goodwill, our CGUs or groups of CGUs correspond to our reporting
segments as disclosed in Note 3, Segmented information, in BCE’s 2023
consolidated financial statements.
Any significant change in each of the estimates used could have a
material impact on the calculation of the recoverable amount and
resulting impairment charge. As a result, we are unable to reasonably
quantify the changes in our overall financial performance if we had
used different assumptions.
We cannot predict whether an event that triggers impairment will occur,
when it will occur or how it will affect the asset values we have reported.
We believe that any reasonable possible change in the key assumptions
on which the estimate of recoverable amount of the Bell CTS group
of CGUs is based would not cause its carrying amount to exceed its
recoverable amount.
For the Bell Media group of CGUs, a decrease of (0.3%) in the perpetuity
growth rate or an increase of 0.2% in the discount rate would have
resulted in its recoverable amount being equal to its carrying value.
There were no goodwill impairment charges in 2023 or 2022.

deferred taxes
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that
are expected to apply when the asset or liability is recovered or settled.
Both our current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at
the reporting date.
Deferred taxes are provided on temporary differences arising from
investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates, except
where we control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the
foreseeable future.

Fair value of financial instruments
Certain financial instruments, such as investments in equity securities,
derivative financial instruments and certain elements of borrowings, are
carried in the statements of financial position at fair value, with changes
in fair value reflected in the income statements and the statements
of comprehensive income. Fair values are estimated by reference to
published price quotations or by using other valuation techniques that
may include inputs that are not based on observable market data, such
as discounted cash flows and earnings multiples.

Contingencies
In the ordinary course of business, we become involved in various
claims and legal proceedings seeking monetary damages and other
relief. Pending claims and legal proceedings represent a potential cost
to our business. We estimate the amount of a loss by analyzing potential
outcomes and assuming various litigation and settlement strategies,
based on information that is available at the time.
If the final resolution of a legal or regulatory matter results in a judgment
against us or requires us to pay a large settlement, it could have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements in
the period in which the judgment or settlement occurs.

onerous contracts
A provision for onerous contracts is recognized when the unavoidable
costs of meeting our obligations under a contract exceed the expected
benefits to be received under the contract. The provision is measured
at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating
the contract and the expected net cost of completing the contract.

Judgments

post-employment benefit plans

MD&A Accounting policies

We identify any potential impairment by comparing the carrying value
of a CGU or group of CGUs to its recoverable amount. The recoverable
amount of a CGU or group of CGUs is the higher of its fair value less
costs of disposal and its value in use. Both fair value less costs of disposal
and value in use are based on estimates of discounted future cash
flows or other valuation methods. Cash flows are projected based on
past experience, actual operating results and business plans, including
any impact from changes in interest rates and inflation. When the
recoverable amount of a CGU or group of CGUs is less than its carrying
value, the recoverable amount is determined for its identifiable assets
and liabilities. The excess of the recoverable amount of the CGU or
group of CGUs over the total of the amounts assigned to its assets and
liabilities is the recoverable amount of goodwill.

10

A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash
inflows that are independent of the cash inflows from other assets or
groups of assets.

The determination of the discount rate used to value our postemployment benefit obligations requires judgment. The rate is set by
reference to market yields of long-term, high-quality corporate fixed
income investments at the beginning of each fiscal year. Significant
judgment is required when setting the criteria for fixed income
investments to be included in the population from which the yield curve
is derived. The most significant criteria considered for the selection of
investments include the size of the issue and credit quality, along with
the identification of outliers, which are excluded.

The amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities are estimated with
consideration given to the timing, sources and amounts of future
taxable income.

161

Income taxes
The calculation of income taxes requires judgment in interpreting tax rules
and regulations. There are transactions and calculations for which the
ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our tax filings are also subject
to audits, the outcome of which could change the amount of current
and deferred tax assets and liabilities. Management believes that it
has sufficient amounts accrued for outstanding tax matters based on
information that currently is available.
Management judgment is used to determine the amounts of deferred tax
assets and liabilities to be recognized. In particular, judgment is required
when assessing the timing of the reversal of temporary differences to
which future income tax rates are applied.

leases
The application of IFRS 16 requires us to make judgments that affect
the measurement of right-of-use assets and liabilities. A lease contract
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period
of time in exchange for consideration. At inception of the contract, we
assess whether the contract contains an identified asset, whether
we have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits
from use of the asset and whether we have the right to direct how and
for what purpose the asset is used. In determining the lease term, we
include periods covered by renewal options when we are reasonably
certain to exercise those options. Similarly, we include periods covered
by termination options when we are reasonably certain not to exercise
those options. To assess if we are reasonably certain to exercise an
option, we consider all facts and circumstances that create an economic
incentive to exercise renewal options (or not exercise termination
options). Economic incentives include the costs related to the termination
of the lease, the significance of any leasehold improvements and the
importance of the underlying assets to our operations.

10

MD&A Accounting policies

revenue from contracts with customers

162

The identification of performance obligations within a contract and
the timing of satisfaction of performance obligations under long-term
contracts requires judgment. For bundled arrangements, we account for
individual products and services when they are separately identifiable
and the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or

with other readily available resources. When our right to consideration
from a customer corresponds directly with the value to the customer of
the products and services transferred to date, we recognize revenue in
the amount to which we have a right to invoice. We recognize product
revenues from the sale of wireless handsets and devices and wireline
equipment when a customer takes possession of the product. We
recognize service revenues over time, as the services are provided.
Revenues on certain long-term contracts are recognized using output
methods based on products delivered, performance completed to date,
time elapsed or milestones met.
Additionally, the determination of costs to obtain a contract, including the
identification of incremental costs, also requires judgment. Incremental
costs of obtaining a contract with a customer, principally comprised of
sales commissions, and prepaid contract fulfillment costs are included
in Contract costs in the statements of financial position, except where
the amortization period is one year or less, in which case costs of
obtaining a contract are immediately expensed. Capitalized costs are
amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the period and
pattern of transfer to the customer of the related products or services.

Cgus
The determination of CGUs or groups of CGUs for the purpose of
impairment testing requires judgment.

Contingencies
The determination of whether a loss is probable from claims and legal
proceedings and whether an outflow of resources is likely requires
judgment.
We accrue a potential loss if we believe a loss is probable and an outflow
of resources is likely and can be reasonably estimated, based on
information that is available at the time. Any accrual would be charged
to earnings and included in Trade payables and other liabilities or Other
non-current liabilities. Any payment as a result of a judgment or cash
settlement would be deducted from cash from operating activities. We
estimate the amount of a loss by analyzing potential outcomes and
assuming various litigation and settlement strategies.

Adoption of amended accounting standards
As required, we adopted the following amendments to accounting standards issued by the IASB.
Standard

description

Impact

Disclosure of Accounting
Policies – Amendments
to IAS 1 – Presentation
of Financial Statements

These amendments require that entities disclose material
accounting policies, as defined, instead of significant
accounting policies.

These amendments were adopted effective with our annual
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023
and did not result in any significant changes to our financial
statements.

International Tax
Reform – Pillar Two Model
Rules – Amendments
to IAS 12 – Income Taxes

These amendments require that entities apply IAS 12 to income
taxes arising from tax law enacted or substantively enacted
to implement the Pillar Two model rules published by the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development,
including tax law that implements qualified domestic
minimum top-up taxes described in those rules (Pillar Two).
As an exception to the requirements in IAS 12, entities do not
recognize or disclose information about deferred tax assets
and liabilities related to Pillar Two.

In May 2023, we adopted the amendments to IAS 12
retrospectively. As required, we applied the exception and do
not recognize or disclose information about deferred tax assets
and liabilities related to Pillar Two.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

The adoption of these amendments did not have a significant
impact on our financial statements.

National Instrument 52-112, Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures
Disclosure (NI 52-112), prescribes disclosure requirements that apply
to the following specified financial measures:

• Non-GAAP financial measures;

• Non-GAAP ratios;
• Total of segments measures;
• Capital management measures; and
• Supplementary financial measures.
This section provides a description and classification of the specified
financial measures contemplated by NI 52-112 that we use to explain our
financial results except that, for supplementary financial measures, an
explanation of such measures is provided where they are first referred
to in this MD&A if the supplementary financial measures’ labelling is
not sufficiently descriptive.

11.1 Non-GAAP financial measures
A non-GAAP financial measure is a financial measure used to depict our
historical or expected future financial performance, financial position or
cash flow and, with respect to its composition, either excludes an amount
that is included in, or includes an amount that is excluded from, the
composition of the most directly comparable financial measure disclosed
in BCE’s consolidated primary financial statements. We believe that

non-GAAP financial measures are reflective of our ongoing operating
results and provide readers with an understanding of management’s
perspective on and analysis of our performance.
Below are descriptions of the non-GAAP financial measures that we
use to explain our results as well as reconciliations to the most directly
comparable IFRS financial measures.

Adjusted net earnings
The term adjusted net earnings does not have any standardized meaning
under IFRS. Therefore, it is unlikely to be comparable to similar measures
presented by other issuers.
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings attributable to common
shareholders before severance, acquisition and other costs, net mark­
to-market losses (gains) on derivatives used to economically hedge
equity settled share-based compensation plans, net equity losses (gains)
on investments in associates and joint ventures, net losses (gains) on
investments, early debt redemption costs, impairment of assets and
discontinued operations, net of tax and NCI.

We use adjusted net earnings and we believe that certain investors and
analysts use this measure, among other ones, to assess the performance
of our businesses without the effects of severance, acquisition and
other costs, net mark-to-market losses (gains) on derivatives used
to economically hedge equity settled share-based compensation
plans, net equity losses (gains) on investments in associates and joint
ventures, net losses (gains) on investments, early debt redemption costs,
impairment of assets and discontinued operations, net of tax and NCI.
We exclude these items because they affect the comparability of our
financial results and could potentially distort the analysis of trends in
business performance. Excluding these items does not imply they are
non-recurring.

11

BCE uses various financial measures to assess its business performance.
Certain of these measures are calculated in accordance with IFRS
or GAAP while certain other measures do not have a standardized
meaning under GAAP. We believe that our GAAP financial measures,
read together with adjusted non-GAAP and other financial measures,
provide readers with a better understanding of how management
assesses BCE’s performance.

MD&A Non-GAAP financial measures, other financial measures and key performance indicators (KPIs)

11 Non-GAAP financial measures,
other financial measures and
key performance indicators (KPIs)

The most directly comparable IFRS financial measure is net earnings
attributable to common shareholders.

163

The following table is a reconciliation of net earnings attributable to common shareholders to adjusted net earnings on a consolidated basis.
Net earnings attributable to common shareholders

Q4 2023

Q4 2022

2023

2022

382

528

2,076

2,716

41

19

200

94
53

Reconciling items:
Severance, acquisition and other costs
Net mark-to-market (gains) losses on derivatives used to economically
hedge equity settled share-based compensation plans
Net equity losses on investments in associates and joint ventures
Net (gains) losses on investments

MD&A Non-GAAP financial measures, other financial measures and key performance indicators (KPIs)

103

–

581

42

(2)

29

(80)

(24)

–

–

1

18

109

150

143

279

Income taxes for the above reconciling items

(39)

(37)

(100)

(117)

2

(8)

2

(4)

691

654

2,926

3,057

NCI for the above reconciling items

11

(27)

Impairment of assets

Early debt redemption costs

Adjusted net earnings

Adjusted net interest expense
The term adjusted net interest expense does not have any standardized
meaning under IFRS. Therefore, it is unlikely to be comparable to similar
measures presented by other issuers.
We define adjusted net interest expense as twelve-month trailing net
interest expense as shown in our consolidated statements of cash
flows, plus 50% of twelve-month trailing net earnings attributable to
preferred shareholders as shown in our consolidated income statements.
Adjusted net interest expense is a component in the calculation of
the adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio, which is
a capital management measure. For further details on the adjusted
EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio, see section 11.4, Capital
management measures. In 2022 and 2023, we used, and believe that
certain investors and analysts used, the adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net
interest expense ratio, among other measures, to evaluate the financial
health of the company. However, given the correlation between this

ratio and the net debt leverage ratio, we are simplifying our internal
targets to reflect the net debt leverage ratio only and will not report
against adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense in the future.
We believe that this ratio is of less relative importance to our investors,
lenders and other stakeholders as a measure of the strength of our
capital structure.
The most directly comparable IFRS financial measure is net interest
expense. The following table is a reconciliation of net interest expense
to adjusted net interest expense on a consolidated basis.
2023

2022

1,408

1,124

50% of net earnings attributable
to preferred shareholders

94

76

Adjusted net interest expense

1,502

1,200

Net interest expense

Available liquidity
The term available liquidity does not have any standardized meaning
under IFRS. Therefore, it is unlikely to be comparable to similar measures
presented by other issuers.

The following table is a reconciliation of cash to available liquidity on
a consolidated basis.
December 31, 2023

december 31, 2022

We define available liquidity as cash, cash equivalents, short-term
investments and amounts available under our securitized receivables
program and our committed bank credit facilities, excluding credit
facilities that are available exclusively for a pre-determined purpose.
In Q4 2023, we updated our definition of available liquidity to account
for short-term investments as these funds are liquid and can be used to
meet our cash requirements. This change does not impact the available
liquidity amounts previously presented.

Cash

547

99

Cash equivalents

225

50

1,000

–

Amounts available under our
securitized receivables program (1)

700

700

Amounts available under our
committed bank credit facilities (2)

3,303

2,651

Available liquidity

5,775

3,500

We consider available liquidity to be an important indicator of the
financial strength and performance of our businesses because it shows
the funds available to meet our cash requirements, including for, but
not limited to, capital expenditures, post-employment benefit plans
funding, dividend payments, the payment of contractual obligations,
maturing debt, ongoing operations, the acquisition of spectrum, and other
cash requirements. We believe that certain investors and analysts use
available liquidity to evaluate the financial strength and performance of
our businesses. The most directly comparable IFRS financial measure
is cash.

164

(6)
204

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Short-term investments

(1) At December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, $700 million was available under our
securitized receivables program, under which we borrowed $1,200 million in U.S. dollars
($1,588 million in Canadian dollars) and $1,173 million in U.S. dollars ($1,588 million in
Canadian dollars) as at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Loans
secured by receivables are included in Debt due within one year in our consolidated
financial statements.
(2) At December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, $3,303 million and $2,651 million
were available under our committed bank credit facilities, given outstanding commercial
paper of $149 million in U.S. dollars ($197 million in Canadian dollars) and $627 million in
U.S. dollars ($849 million in Canadian dollars) as at December 31, 2023 and December 31,
2022, respectively. Commercial paper outstanding is included in Debt due within one year
in our consolidated financial statements.

Free cash flow and excess free cash flow
We consider free cash flow and excess free cash flow to be important
indicators of the financial strength and performance of our businesses.
Free cash flow shows how much cash is available to pay dividends
on common shares, repay debt and reinvest in our company. Excess
free cash flow shows how much cash is available to repay debt and
reinvest in our company, after the payment of dividends on common
shares. We believe that certain investors and analysts use free cash
flow and excess free cash flow to value a business and its underlying
assets and to evaluate the financial strength and performance of our
businesses. The most directly comparable IFRS financial measure is
cash flows from operating activities.

We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities,
excluding cash from discontinued operations, acquisition and other
costs paid (which include significant litigation costs) and voluntary
pension funding, less capital expenditures, preferred share dividends and
dividends paid by subsidiaries to NCI. We exclude cash from discontinued
operations, acquisition and other costs paid and voluntary pension
funding because they affect the comparability of our financial results and
could potentially distort the analysis of trends in business performance.
Excluding these items does not imply they are non-recurring.

The following tables provide reconciliations of cash flows from operating activities to free cash flow and excess free cash flow on a consolidated basis.
2023

Q4 2023

Q3 2023

Q2 2023

Cash flows from operating activities

7,946

2,373

1,961

2,365

Q1 2023

1,247

Capital expenditures

(4,581)

(1,029)

(1,159)

(1,307)

(1,086)

Cash dividends paid on preferred shares

(182)

(46)

(35)

(46)

(55)

Cash dividends paid by subsidiaries to NCI

(47)

(12)

(13)

(1)

(21)

8

3

–

5

–

Free cash flow

3,144

1,289

754

1,016

85

Dividends paid on common shares

(3,486)

(882)

(883)

(882)

(839)

(342)

407

(129)

134

(754)

Acquisition and other costs paid

Excess free cash flow
2022

Q4 2022

Q3 2022

Q2 2022

Q1 2022

2021

Cash flows from operating activities

8,365

2,056

1,996

2,597

1,716

8,008

Capital expenditures

(5,133)

(1,638)

(1,317)

(1,219)

(959)

(4,852)

Cash dividends paid on preferred shares

(136)

(42)

(27)

(34)

(33)

(125)

Cash dividends paid by subsidiaries to NCI

(39)

(3)

(11)

(14)

(11)

(86)

Acquisition and other costs paid

10

3

1

3

3

35

Free cash flow

3,067

376

642

1,333

716

2,980

Dividends paid on common shares

(3,312)

(839)

(839)

(839)

(795)

(3,132)

(245)

(463)

(197)

494

(79)

(152)

Excess free cash flow

Net debt
The term net debt does not have any standardized meaning under
IFRS. Therefore, it is unlikely to be comparable to similar measures
presented by other issuers.
We define net debt as debt due within one year plus long-term debt and
50% of preferred shares, less cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments, as shown in BCE’s consolidated statements of financial
position. We include 50% of outstanding preferred shares in our net
debt as it is consistent with the treatment by certain credit rating
agencies. In Q4 2023, we updated our definition of net debt to account
for short-term investments as these funds are liquid and may be used
to repay the debt due within one year. This change does not impact the
net debt amounts previously presented.
We consider net debt to be an important indicator of the company’s
financial leverage because it represents the amount of debt that is not
covered by available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
We believe that certain investors and analysts use net debt to determine
a company’s financial leverage.

Net debt is calculated using several asset and liability categories from
the statements of financial position. The most directly comparable IFRS
financial measure is long-term debt. The following table is a reconciliation
of long-term debt to net debt on a consolidated basis.
December 31, 2023

december 31, 2022

Long-term debt

31,135

27,783

Debt due within one year

5,042

4,137

50% of preferred shares

1,834

1,935

Cash

(547)

(99)

Cash equivalents

(225)

(50)

Short-term investments

(1,000)

–

Net debt

36,239

33,706

MD&A Non-GAAP financial measures, other financial measures and key performance indicators (KPIs)

We define excess free cash flow as free cash flow less dividends paid
on common shares.

11

The terms free cash flow and excess free cash flow do not have any
standardized meaning under IFRS. Therefore, they are unlikely to be
comparable to similar measures presented by other issuers.

165

11.2 Non-GAAP ratios
A non-GAAP ratio is a financial measure disclosed in the form of a ratio, fraction, percentage or similar representation and that has a non-GAAP
financial measure as one or more of its components.

Adjusted EPS

11

MD&A Non-GAAP financial measures, other financial measures and key performance indicators (KPIs)

The term adjusted EPS does not have any standardized meaning under
IFRS. Therefore, it is unlikely to be comparable to similar measures
presented by other issuers.
We define adjusted EPS as adjusted net earnings per BCE common
share. Adjusted net earnings is a non-GAAP financial measure. For
further details on adjusted net earnings, see section 11.1, Non-GAAP
financial measures.
We use adjusted EPS, and we believe that certain investors and analysts
use this measure, among other ones, to assess the performance of our

Dividend payout ratio
The term dividend payout ratio does not have any standardized meaning
under IFRS. Therefore, it is unlikely to be comparable to similar measures
presented by other issuers.
We define dividend payout ratio as dividends paid on common shares
divided by free cash flow. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial

measure. For further details on free cash flow, see section 11.1, Non-GAAP
financial measures.
We consider dividend payout ratio to be an important indicator of the
financial strength and performance of our businesses because it shows
the sustainability of the company’s dividend payments.

11.3 Total of segments measures
A total of segments measure is a financial measure that is a subtotal or total of 2 or more reportable segments and is disclosed within the Notes
to BCE’s consolidated primary financial statements.

Adjusted EBITDA
We define adjusted EBITDA as operating revenues less operating costs as shown in BCE’s consolidated income statements.
The most directly comparable IFRS financial measure is net earnings. The following tables provide reconciliations of net earnings to adjusted
EBITDA on a consolidated basis.
2023

Q4 2023

Q3 2023

Q2 2023

Q1 2023

2,327

435

707

397

788

200

41

10

100

49

Depreciation

3,745

954

937

936

918

Amortization

1,173

299

295

296

283

Interest expense

1,475

399

373

359

344

Net return on post-employment benefit plans

(108)

(27)

(27)

(27)

(27)

Impairment of assets

143

109

–

–

34

Other expense (income)

466

147

129

311

(121)

Income taxes

996

210

243

273

270

10,417

2,567

2,667

2,645

2,538

Net earnings
Severance, acquisition and other costs

Finance costs

Adjusted EBITDA

166

businesses without the effects of severance, acquisition and other costs,
net mark-to-market losses (gains) on derivatives used to economically
hedge equity settled share-based compensation plans, net equity losses
(gains) on investments in associates and joint ventures, net losses (gains)
on investments, early debt redemption costs, impairment of assets and
discontinued operations, net of tax and NCI. We exclude these items
because they affect the comparability of our financial results and
could potentially distort the analysis of trends in business performance.
Excluding these items does not imply they are non-recurring.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Net earnings

2022

Q4 2022

Q3 2022

Q2 2022

Q1 2022

2021

2,926

567

771

654

934

2,892

94

19

22

40

13

209

Depreciation

3,660

922

914

933

891

3,627

Amortization

1,063

270

267

266

260

982

1,146

319

298

269

260

1,082

Severance, acquisition and other costs

(51)

(13)

(13)

(7)

(18)

20

Impairment of assets

279

150

21

106

2

197

Other expense (income)

115

(19)

130

97

(93)

(160)

Income taxes

967

222

178

232

335

1,044

10,199

2,437

2,588

2,590

2,584

9,893

Adjusted EBITDA

11.4 Capital management measures
A capital management measure is a financial measure that is intended
to enable a reader to evaluate our objectives, policies and processes
for managing our capital and is disclosed within the Notes to BCE’s
consolidated financial statements.

The financial reporting framework used to prepare the financial
statements requires disclosure that helps readers assess the company’s
capital management objectives, policies, and processes, as set out in
IFRS in IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements. BCE has its own
methods for managing capital and liquidity, and IFRS does not prescribe
any particular calculation method.

Adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio
The adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio represents
adjusted EBITDA divided by adjusted net interest expense. For the
purposes of calculating our adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest
expense ratio, adjusted EBITDA is twelve-month trailing adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted net interest expense used in the calculation of the adjusted
EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio is a non-GAAP financial
measure defined as twelve-month trailing net interest expense as shown
in our consolidated statements of cash flows, plus 50% of twelve-month
trailing net earnings attributable to preferred shareholders as shown
in our consolidated income statements. For further details on adjusted
net interest expense, see section 11.1, Non-GAAP financial measures.

In 2022 and 2023, we used, and believe that certain investors and
analysts used, the adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense
ratio, among other measures, to evaluate the financial health of the
company. However, given the correlation between this ratio and the net
debt leverage ratio, we are simplifying our internal targets to reflect
the net debt leverage ratio only and will not report against adjusted
EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense in the future. We believe that
this ratio is of less relative importance to our investors, lenders and
other stakeholders as a measure of the strength of our capital structure.

Net debt leverage ratio
The net debt leverage ratio represents net debt divided by adjusted
EBITDA. Net debt used in the calculation of the net debt leverage ratio
is a non-GAAP financial measure. For further details on net debt, see
section 11.1, Non-GAAP financial measures. For the purposes of calculating
our net debt leverage ratio, adjusted EBITDA is twelve-month trailing
adjusted EBITDA.

We use, and believe that certain investors and analysts use, the net
debt leverage ratio as a measure of financial leverage.

11

Interest expense
Net (return) expense on
post-employment benefit plans

MD&A Non-GAAP financial measures, other financial measures and key performance indicators (KPIs)

Finance costs

167

11.5 Supplementary financial measures
A supplementary financial measure is a financial measure that is not
reported in BCE’s consolidated financial statements, and is, or is intended
to be, reported periodically to represent historical or expected future
financial performance, financial position, or cash flows.

An explanation of such measures is provided where they are first
referred to in this MD&A if the supplementary financial measures’
labelling is not sufficiently descriptive.

11.6 KPIs

KPI

Definition

Adjusted EBITDA margin

Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as adjusted EBITDA divided by operating revenues.

ARPU

Effective Q1 2023, as a result of the segment reporting changes impacting intersegment eliminations, ARPU has been updated and
is defined as Bell CTS wireless external services revenues (previously wireless operating service revenues) divided by the average
mobile phone subscriber base for the specified period, expressed as a dollar unit per month.

Capital intensity

Capital intensity is defined as capital expenditures divided by operating revenues.

Churn

Mobile phone churn is the rate at which existing mobile phone subscribers cancel their services. It is a measure of our ability
to retain our customers. Mobile phone churn is calculated by dividing the number of mobile phone deactivations during a given
period by the average number of mobile phone subscribers in the base for the specified period and is expressed as a percentage
per month.

Subscriber unit

Mobile phone subscriber unit is comprised of a recurring revenue-generating portable unit (e.g. smartphones and feature phones)
on an active service plan, that has access to our wireless networks and includes voice, text and/or data connectivity. We report
mobile phone subscriber units in two categories: postpaid and prepaid. Prepaid mobile phone subscriber units are considered
active for a period of 90 days following the expiry of the subscriber’s prepaid balance.
Mobile connected device subscriber unit is comprised of a recurring revenue-generating portable unit (e.g. tablets, wearables,
mobile Internet devices and IoT) on an active service plan, that has access to our wireless networks and is intended for limited
or no cellular voice capability.
Wireline subscriber unit consists of an active revenue-generating unit with access to our services, including retail Internet,
satellite TV, IPTV, and/or residential NAS. A subscriber is included in our subscriber base when the service has been installed
and is operational at the customer premise and a billing relationship has been established.

• Retail Internet, IPTV and satellite TV subscribers have access to stand-alone services, and are primarily represented
by a dwelling unit

• Retail residential NAS subscribers are based on a line count and are represented by a unique telephone number

11

MD&A Non-GAAP financial measures, other financial measures and key performance indicators (KPIs)

In addition to the non-GAAP financial measures and other financial measures described previously, we use the following KPIs to measure the
success of our strategic imperatives. These KPIs are not accounting measures and may not be comparable to similar measures presented by
other issuers.

168

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

12 Effectiveness of internal controls
Disclosure controls and procedures
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide
reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by
us in reports filed or submitted under Canadian and U.S. securities
laws is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified under those laws, and include controls and procedures
that are designed to ensure that the information is accumulated and
communicated to management, including BCE’s President and CEO and
Executive Vice-President and CFO, to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure.

As at December 31, 2023, management evaluated, under the supervision
of and with the participation of the CEO and the CFO, the effectiveness
of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e)
under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and under
National Instrument 52-109 – Certification of Disclosure in Issuers’
Annual and Interim Filings.
Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as at December 31, 2023.

Internal control over financial reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and under
National Instrument 52-109. Our internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed under the supervision of the CEO and CFO, and
effected by the Board, management and other personnel of BCE, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. However,
because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis.

Management evaluated, under the supervision of and with the
participation of the CEO and the CFO, the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2023, based on the
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).
Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our internal
control over financial reporting was effective as at December 31, 2023.

Changes in internal control over financial reporting

12

MD&A Effectiveness of internal controls

No changes were made in our internal control over financial reporting during the year ended December 31, 2023 that have materially affected,
or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

169

Reports on internal controls
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting
The management of BCE Inc. (BCE) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under
the supervision of the President and Chief Executive Officer and the
Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer and effected by the
board of directors, management and other personnel of BCE, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. Also,
projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

Reports on internal controls

Management evaluated, under the supervision of and with the
participation of the President and Chief Executive Officer and the
Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting as at December 31,
2023, based on the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

170

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Based on that evaluation, the President and Chief Executive Officer and
the Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as at
December 31, 2023. There were no material weaknesses that have
been identified by BCE’s management in internal control over financial
reporting as at December 31, 2023.
Our internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2023 has
been audited by Deloitte LLP, independent registered public accounting
firm, who also audited our consolidated financial statements for the year
ended December 31, 2023. Deloitte LLP issued an unqualified opinion
on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as
at December 31, 2023.
(signed) Mirko Bibic
President and Chief Executive Officer
(signed) Curtis Millen
Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer
(signed) Thierry Chaumont
Senior Vice-President, Controller and Tax
March 7, 2024

Report of independent registered public accounting firm
To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of BCE Inc.

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of BCE Inc.
and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2023, based on
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2023 based on criteria established in Internal Control –
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) the
consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended
December 31, 2023, of the Company and our report dated March 7,
2024, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.

Basis for opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a
public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to
be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the
U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and limitations of internal control
over financial reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Deloitte LLP
Chartered Professional Accountants
Montréal, Canada
March 7, 2024

Reports on internal controls

Opinion on internal control over
financial reporting

171

Consolidated financial statements

Consolidated financial statements

Table of contents

172

Management’s responsibility for financial reporting

173

Report of independent registered public accounting firm

174

Consolidated income statements

176

Consolidated statements of comprehensive income

176

Consolidated statements of financial position

177

Consolidated statements of changes in equity

178

Consolidated statements of cash flows

179

Notes to consolidated financial statements

180

Note 1
Note 2
Note 3
Note 4
Note 5
Note 6
Note 7
Note 8
Note 9
Note 10
Note 11
Note 12
Note 13
Note 14
Note 15
Note 16
Note 17
Note 18
Note 19
Note 20
Note 21
Note 22
Note 23
Note 24
Note 25
Note 26
Note 27
Note 28
Note 29
Note 30
Note 31
Note 32
Note 33
Note 34
Note 35
Note 36

180
180
188
190
192
192
193
193
194
194
196
196
196
197
197
197
198
199
200
201
202
202
203
203
204
206
206
209
210
214
216
217
218
219
220
221

Corporate information
Material accounting policies
Segmented information
Business acquisitions and disposition
Operating costs
Severance, acquisition and other costs
Interest expense
Impairment of assets
Other expense
Income taxes
Earnings per share
Trade and other receivables
Inventory
Contract assets and liabilities
Contract costs
Assets held for sale
Property, plant and equipment
Leases
Intangible assets
Investments in associates and joint ventures
Other non-current assets
Goodwill
Trade payables and other liabilities
Debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Provisions
Post-employment benefit plans
Other non-current liabilities
Financial and capital management
Share capital
Share-based payments
Additional cash flow information
Remaining performance obligations
Commitments and contingencies
Related party transactions
Significant partly-owned subsidiary

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Management’s responsibility for financial reporting
The financial statements and all of the information in this report are
the responsibility of the management of BCE Inc. (BCE) and have been
reviewed and approved by the board of directors. The board of directors
is responsible for ensuring that management fulfills its financial reporting
responsibilities. Deloitte LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm, have audited the financial statements.
Management has prepared the financial statements in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by
the International Accounting Standards Board. Under these principles,
management has made certain estimates and assumptions that are
reflected in the financial statements and notes. Management believes
that these financial statements fairly present BCE’s consolidated financial
position, results of operations and cash flows.
Management has a system of internal controls designed to provide
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are accurate and
complete in all material respects. This is supported by an internal audit
group that reports to the Audit Committee, and includes communication
with employees about policies for ethical business conduct. Management
believes that the internal controls provide reasonable assurance that
our financial records are reliable and form a proper basis for preparing
the financial statements, and that our assets are properly accounted
for and safeguarded.

The board of directors has appointed an Audit Committee, which is
made up of unrelated and independent directors. The Audit Committee’s
responsibilities include reviewing the financial statements and other
information in this report, and recommending them to the board
of directors for approval. You will find a description of the Audit
Committee’s other responsibilities in this report. The internal auditors
and the shareholders’ auditors have free and independent access to
the Audit Committee.
(signed) Mirko Bibic
President and Chief Executive Officer
(signed) Curtis Millen
Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer
(signed) Thierry Chaumont
Senior Vice-President, Controller and Tax
March 7, 2024

Consolidated financial statements

These financial statements form the basis for all of the financial
information that appears in this report.

173

Report of independent registered public accounting firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of BCE Inc.

Opinion on the financial statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of
financial position of BCE Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as
at December 31, 2023 and 2022, the related consolidated income
statements, statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity, and
cash flows, for each of the two years in the period ended December 31,
2023, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial
statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as at
December 31, 2023 and 2022, and its financial performance and its
cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31,
2023, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.

Consolidated financial statements

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 7, 2024,
expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting.

174

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Basis for opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public
accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S.
federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our
audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or
fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such
procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits
also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

goodwill and intangible assets –
Bell Media group – refer to notes 2n, 8, 19 and 22
to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description

Goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets for the Bell Media group
of cash generating units (“Bell Media”) are tested annually or when
there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. As a result of the
annual assessment of impairment of goodwill and intangible assets for
Bell Media, management has determined that there is no impairment
of goodwill and there is an impairment for intangible assets relating
to the French TV channels.
When testing goodwill and intangible assets for Bell Media, while there
are several assumptions that are required to determine the recoverable
amount, the judgments with the highest degree of subjectivity and
impact, are the operating cash flow projections, and the determination
of discount rates and perpetuity growth rates (“significant assumptions”).
Changes in these significant assumptions could have a significant impact
on the recoverable amount of Bell Media, resulting in an impairment
charge to goodwill and/or intangible assets as required. Auditing the
significant assumptions required a high degree of auditor judgment
and an increased extent of audit effort, which included the involvement
of fair value specialists.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the significant assumptions used by
management to determine the recoverable amount for Bell Media
included the following, among others:

• Evaluated the effectiveness of controls over the assessment of

goodwill and intangible assets for impairment, including those over
the significant assumptions;

• Evaluated management’s ability to accurately project future operating

cash flows by comparing actual results to management’s historical
projections;

• Evaluated the reasonableness of management’s operating cash flow
projections by comparing the projections to:
• Historical operating cash flows;
• Analyst and industry reports for the Company and certain of its
peer companies, and other relevant publicly available information;
• Known changes in Bell Media’s operations and the industry in
which it operates, and the current economic uncertainty from
inflationary pressures, which are expected to impact future operating
performance;
• Internal communications to management and the Board of Directors;

• With the assistance of fair value specialists, evaluated the

reasonableness of the (1) discount rates, and (2) perpetuity growth
rates by:
• Testing the source information underlying the determination of the
discount rates;
• Reviewing relevant internal and external information, including
analyst and industry reports, to assess the reasonability of the
selected discount rates and perpetuity growth rates;

• Developing ranges of independent estimates and comparing those
to the discount rates and perpetuity growth rates selected by
management.
/s/ Deloitte LLP
Chartered Professional Accountants
Montréal, Canada
March 7, 2024
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1880.

Consolidated financial statements

Critical audit matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the
current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated
or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1)
relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial
statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or
complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does
not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as
a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter
below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on
the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.

175

Consolidated income statements
For the year ended december 31
(in millions of Canadian dollars, except share amounts)

Operating revenues

note

2023

2022

3

24,673

24,174
(13,975)

3, 5

(14,256)

Severance, acquisition and other costs

6

(200)

(94)

Depreciation

17

(3,745)

(3,660)

Amortization

19

(1,173)

(1,063)

Interest expense

7

(1,475)

(1,146)

Net return on post-employment benefit plans

27

108

51

8, 17, 19

(143)

(279)

Other expense

9

(466)

(115)

Income taxes

10

(996)

(967)

2,327

2,926

Common shareholders

2,076

2,716

Preferred shareholders

187

152

Operating costs

Finance costs

Impairment of assets

Net earnings
Net earnings attributable to:

Non-controlling interest

36

Net earnings
Net earnings per common share – basic and diluted

11

Weighted average number of common shares outstanding – basic (millions)

64

58

2,327

2,926

2.28

2.98

912.2

911.5

Consolidated statements of comprehensive income
For the year ended december 31
(in millions of Canadian dollars)

note

Net earnings

2023

2022

2,327

2,926

(257)

(321)

Other comprehensive (loss) income, net of income taxes
Items that will be subsequently reclassified to net earnings
Net change in value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, net of income taxes
of $93 million and $118 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively
Items that will not be reclassified to net earnings

Consolidated financial statements

Actuarial (losses) gains on post-employment benefit plans, net of income taxes of $149 million
and ($151) million for 2023 and 2022, respectively

(404)

415

Net change in value of publicly-traded and privately-held investments, net of income taxes
of ($50) million and ($19) million for 2023 and 2022, respectively

325

30

Net change in value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, net of income taxes
of $5 million and ($21) million for 2023 and 2022, respectively

(12)

58

Other comprehensive (loss) income

(348)

182

Total comprehensive income

1,979

3,108

Common shareholders

1,731

2,891

Preferred shareholders

187

152

61

65

1,979

3,108

Total comprehensive income attributable to:

Non-controlling interest
Total comprehensive income

176

27

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

36

Consolidated statements of financial position
December 31, 2023

december 31, 2022

Cash

547

99

Cash equivalents

225

50

(in millions of Canadian dollars)

note

ASSETS
Current assets

Short-term investments

1,000

–

Trade and other receivables

12

4,031

4,138

Inventory

13

465

656

Contract assets

14

443

436

Contract costs

15

633

540

230

244

264

324

60

–

7,898

6,487

288

Prepaid expenses
Other current assets
Assets held for sale

16

Total current assets
Non-current assets
Contract assets

14

292

Contract costs

15

779

603

Property, plant and equipment

17

30,352

29,256
16,183

Intangible assets

19

16,609

Deferred tax assets

10

96

84

Investments in associates and joint ventures

20

323

608
3,559

Post-employment benefit assets

27

2,935

Other non-current assets

21

1,714

1,355

Goodwill

22

10,942

10,906

Total non-current assets

64,042

62,842

Total assets

71,940

69,329

5,221

LIABILITIES
Trade payables and other liabilities

23

4,729

Contract liabilities

14

811

857

332

281

Interest payable
Dividends payable

910

867

Current tax liabilities

268

106

Debt due within one year

24

5,042

4,137

Liabilities held for sale

16

15

–

12,107

11,469

Total current liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Contract liabilities

14

277

228

Long-term debt

25

31,135

27,783

Deferred tax liabilities

10

4,869

4,953

Post-employment benefit obligations

27

1,278

1,311

Other non-current liabilities

28

1,717

1,070

Total non-current liabilities

39,276

35,345

Total liabilities

51,383

46,814

Commitments and contingencies

34

Consolidated financial statements

Current liabilities

EQUITY
Equity attributable to BCE shareholders
Preferred shares

30

3,667

3,870

Common shares

30

20,859

20,840

Contributed surplus

30

1,258

1,172

(42)

(55)

(5,513)

(3,649)

20,229

22,178

328

337

Total equity

20,557

22,515

Total liabilities and equity

71,940

69,329

Accumulated other comprehensive loss
Deficit
Total equity attributable to BCE shareholders
Non-controlling interest

36

177

Consolidated statements of changes in equity
Attributable to BCE shareholders
Preferred
shares

Common
shares

Contributed
surplus

Accumulated
other com­
prehensive
(loss) income

Deficit

Total

Noncontrolling
interest

Total equity

3,870

20,840

1,172

(55)

(3,649)

22,178

337

22,515

Net earnings

–

–

–

–

2,263

2,263

64

2,327

Other comprehensive income (loss)

–

–

–

59

(404)

(345)

(3)

(348)

Total comprehensive income

–

–

–

59

1,859

1,918

61

1,979
18

For the year ended december 31, 2023
(in millions of Canadian dollars)

note

Balance at December 31, 2022

Common shares issued under
employee stock option plan

30

–

19

(1)

–

–

18

–

Other share-based compensation

30

–

–

24

–

(23)

1

–

1

Repurchase of preferred shares

30

(203)

–

63

–

–

(140)

–

(140)

Dividends declared on BCE common
and preferred shares

–

–

–

–

(3,717)

(3,717)

–

(3,717)

Dividends declared by subsidiaries
to non-controlling interest

–

–

–

–

–

–

(47)

(47)

–

–

–

(29)

–

(29)

–

(29)

–

–

–

–

–

–

(23)

(23)

–

–

–

(17)

17

–

–

–

3,667

20,859

1,258

(42)

(5,513)

20,229

328

20,557

Settlement of cash flow hedges
transferred to the cost basis
of hedged items
Disposition of production studios

4

Other
Balance at December 31, 2023

attributable to BCE shareholders
preferred
shares

Common
shares

Contributed
surplus

accumulated
other com­
prehensive
income (loss)

deficit

total

noncontrolling
interest

total equity

4,003

20,662

1,157

213

(3,400)

22,635

306

22,941

Net earnings

–

–

–

–

2,868

2,868

58

2,926

Other comprehensive (loss) income

–

–

–

(238)

413

175

7

182

Total comprehensive (loss) income

–

–

–

(238)

3,281

3,043

65

3,108
171

For the year ended december 31, 2022
(in millions of Canadian dollars)

note

Consolidated financial statements

Balance at December 31, 2021

178

Common shares issued under
employee stock option plan

30

–

177

(6)

–

–

171

–

Other share-based compensation

30

–

1

13

–

(41)

(27)

–

(27)

Repurchase of preferred shares

30

(133)

–

8

–

–

(125)

–

(125)

Dividends declared on BCE common
and preferred shares

–

–

–

–

(3,508)

(3,508)

–

(3,508)

Dividends declared by subsidiaries
to non-controlling interest

–

–

–

–

–

–

(39)

(39)

Settlement of cash flow hedges
transferred to the cost basis
of hedged items

–

–

–

(11)

–

(11)

–

(11)

Other

–

–

–

(19)

19

–

5

5

3,870

20,840

1,172

(55)

(3,649)

22,178

337

22,515

Balance at December 31, 2022

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Consolidated statements of cash flows
For the year ended december 31
(in millions of Canadian dollars)

note

2023

2022

2,327

2,926

Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows from operating activities
Severance, acquisition and other costs
Depreciation and amortization
Post-employment benefit plans cost

6

200

94

17, 19

4,918

4,723

27

Net interest expense

98

198

1,408

1,124

Impairment of assets

8

143

279

Gains on investments

9

(80)

(24)

Net equity losses from investments in associates and joint ventures

9

581

42

Income taxes

10

996

967

Contributions to post-employment benefit plans

27

(52)

(140)

Payments under other post-employment benefit plans

27

(64)

(64)

(178)

(129)

Severance and other costs paid

(1,486)

(1,197)

Income taxes paid (net of refunds)

(700)

(749)

Acquisition and other costs paid

(8)

(10)

(11)

(59)

Interest paid

Change in contract assets

14

Change in wireless device financing plan receivables

12

Net change in operating assets and liabilities
Cash flows from operating activities

(46)

22

(100)

362

7,946

8,365

(4,581)

(5,133)

Cash flows used in investing activities
Capital expenditures

3

Short-term investments

(1,000)

–

(222)

(429)

Business acquisitions

4

Business disposition

4, 9

209

52

Spectrum licences

19

(183)

(3)

(4)

(4)

(5,781)

(5,517)

(646)

111

Other investing activities
Cash flows used in investing activities
(Decrease) increase in notes payable
Increase in securitized receivables

24

–

700

Issue of long-term debt

25

5,195

1,951

Repayment of long-term debt

25

(1,858)

(2,023)

Repurchase of financial liability

29

(149)

–

Issue of common shares

30

18

171

Purchase of shares for settlement of share-based payments

31

(223)

(255)

Repurchase of preferred shares

30

(140)

(125)

Cash dividends paid on common shares

(3,486)

(3,312)
(136)

Cash dividends paid on preferred shares

(182)

Cash dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interest

(47)

(39)

Other financing activities

(24)

(31)

(1,542)

(2,988)

Cash flow used in financing activities
Net increase (decrease) in cash

448

(190)

Cash at beginning of year

99

289

Cash at end of year

547

99

Net increase in cash equivalents

175

50

Cash equivalents at beginning of year

50

–

Cash equivalents at end of year

225

50

Consolidated financial statements

Cash flow used in financing activities

179

Notes to consolidated
financial statements
We, us, our, BCE and the company mean, as the context may require, either BCE Inc. or, collectively, BCE Inc., Bell Canada, their subsidiaries,
joint arrangements and associates.

notE 1

Corporate information

BCE is incorporated and domiciled in Canada. BCE’s head office is located at 1, Carrefour Alexander-Graham-Bell, Verdun, Québec, Canada.
BCE is a communications company providing wireless, wireline, Internet and television (TV) services to residential, business and wholesale
customers in Canada. Our Bell Media segment provides conventional TV, specialty TV, pay TV, streaming services, digital media services, radio
broadcasting services and out-of-home (OOH) advertising services to customers in Canada. The consolidated financial statements (financial
statements) were approved by BCE’s board of directors on March 7, 2024.

notE 2

Material accounting policies

A) Basis of presentation
The financial statements were prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The financial statements have
been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial
instruments that are measured at fair value as described in our
accounting policies.

All amounts are in millions of Canadian dollars, except where noted.

Functional currency

The financial statements are presented in Canadian dollars, the
company’s functional currency.

B) Basis of consolidation
We consolidate the financial statements of all of our subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date of acquisition and the results of subsidiaries sold during the
year are deconsolidated from the date of disposal. Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

C) Revenue from contracts with customers

180

Revenue is measured based on the value of the expected consideration in
a contract with a customer and excludes sales taxes and other amounts
we collect on behalf of third parties. We recognize revenue when control
of a product or service is transferred to a customer. When our right
to consideration from a customer corresponds directly with the value
to the customer of the products and services transferred to date, we
recognize revenue in the amount to which we have a right to invoice.
For bundled arrangements, we account for individual products and
services when they are separately identifiable and the customer can
benefit from the product or service on its own or with other readily
available resources. The total arrangement consideration is allocated to
each product or service included in the contract with the customer based
on its stand-alone selling price. We generally determine stand-alone
selling prices based on the observable prices at which we sell products
separately without a service contract and prices for non-bundled
service offers with the same range of services, adjusted for market
conditions and other factors, as appropriate. When similar products
and services are not sold separately, we use the expected cost plus

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

margin approach to determine stand-alone selling prices. Products
and services purchased by a customer in excess of those included in
the bundled arrangement are accounted for separately.
We may enter into arrangements with subcontractors and others
who provide services to our customers. When we act as the principal
in these arrangements, we recognize revenues based on the amounts
billed to our customers. Otherwise, we recognize the net amount that
we retain as revenues.
A contract asset is recognized in the consolidated statements of
financial position (statements of financial position) when our right to
consideration from the transfer of products or services to a customer
is conditional on our obligation to transfer other products or services.
Contract assets are transferred to trade receivables when our right
to consideration becomes conditional only as to the passage of time.
A contract liability is recognized in the statements of financial position
when we receive consideration in advance of the transfer of products
or services to the customer. Contract assets and liabilities relating to
the same contract are presented on a net basis.

Incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer, principally
comprised of sales commissions, and prepaid contract fulfillment costs
are included in Contract costs in the statements of financial position,
except where the amortization period is one year or less, in which case
costs of obtaining a contract are immediately expensed. Capitalized
costs are amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the
period and pattern of transfer to the customer of the related products
or services.

Bell Communication and Technology Services
(Bell CTS) segment revenues

We recognize product revenues from the sale of equipment when
a customer takes possession of the product. We recognize service
revenues over time, as the services are provided. Revenues on certain
long-term contracts are recognized using output methods based on
products delivered, performance completed to date, time elapsed or
milestones met.
For wireless products and services that are sold separately, customers
usually pay in full at the time of sale for products and on a monthly
basis for services. For wireless products and services sold in bundled

arrangements, including device financing plans, customers pay monthly
over a contract term of up to 24 months for residential customers and
up to 36 months for business customers. If they include a significant
financing component, device financing plan receivables are discounted
at market rates and interest revenue is accreted over the contractual
repayment period.
For wireline customers, products are usually paid in full at the time of
sale. Services are paid for on a monthly basis except where a billing
schedule has been established with certain business customers under
long-term contracts that can generally extend up to seven years.

Bell Media segment revenues

We recognize advertising revenue when advertisements are aired on
the radio or TV, posted on our websites or appear on our advertising
panels and street furniture. Revenues relating to subscriber fees are
recorded on a monthly basis as the services are provided. Customer
payments are due monthly as the services are provided.

See Note 3, Segmented information, for additional details.

D) Share-based payments

ESP

We recognize our ESP contributions as compensation expense in
Operating costs in the consolidated income statements (income
statements) over the two-year vesting period, with a corresponding
credit to contributed surplus. The value of an ESP at the grant date is
equal to the value of one BCE common share. Additional ESPs are issued
to reflect dividends declared on the common shares. Upon settlement
of shares under the ESP, any difference between the cost of shares
purchased on the open market and the amount credited to contributed
surplus is reflected in the deficit.

RSUs/PSUs

For each RSU/PSU granted, we recognize compensation expense in
Operating costs in the income statements over the three-year vesting
period, with a corresponding credit to contributed surplus. The value of
a RSU/PSU at the grant date is equal to the value of one BCE common
share or the value estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation for PSUs
that include relative total shareholder return as a performance condition.
Additional RSUs/PSUs are issued to reflect dividends declared on the
common shares.

Upon settlement of the RSUs/PSUs, any difference between the cost
of shares purchased on the open market and the amount credited to
contributed surplus is reflected in the deficit. Vested RSUs/PSUs are
settled in BCE common shares, DSUs, or a combination thereof.

DSUs

If compensation is elected to be taken in DSUs, we issue DSUs equal
to the fair value of the services received, with a corresponding credit
to contributed surplus. Additional DSUs are issued to reflect dividends
declared on the common shares. DSUs are settled in BCE common shares
purchased on the open market following the cessation of employment
or when a director leaves the board. Upon settlement of the DSUs, any
difference between the cost of shares purchased on the open market
and the amount credited to contributed surplus is reflected in the deficit.

Stock options

The fair value of options granted is determined using a variation of a
binomial option pricing model that takes into account factors specific to
the stock option plan. We recognize compensation expense in Operating
costs in the income statements over the three-year vesting period, with
a corresponding credit to contributed surplus.
When stock options are exercised, we credit share capital for the amount
received and the amounts previously credited to contributed surplus.

E) Income and other taxes
Current and deferred income tax expense is recognized in the income
statements, except to the extent that the expense relates to items
recognized in Other comprehensive (loss) income or directly in equity.
We use the liability method to account for deferred tax assets and
liabilities, which arise from:

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that
are expected to apply when the asset or liability is recovered or settled.
Both our current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at
the reporting date.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Our share-based payment arrangements include an employee savings
plan (ESP), restricted share units (RSUs) and performance share units
(PSUs), deferred share units (DSUs) and stock options.

• temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and
liabilities recognized in the statements of financial position and their
corresponding tax bases

• the carryforward of unused tax losses and credits, to the extent they
can be used in the future

181

Deferred taxes are provided on temporary differences arising from
investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates, except
where we control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the
foreseeable future.
Tax liabilities are, where permitted, offset against tax assets within the
same taxable entity and tax jurisdiction.

Investment tax credits (ITCs), other tax credits
and government grants

We recognize ITCs, other tax credits and government grants given on
eligible expenditures when it is reasonably assured that they will be
realized. We use the cost reduction method to account for ITCs and
government grants, under which the credits are applied against the
expense or asset to which the ITCs or government grants relate.

F) Cash equivalents and other short-term deposits
Cash equivalents are comprised of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase and are
measured at amortized cost. Short-term deposits with original maturities of more than three months are included in Short-term investments
in the statements of financial position and are measured at amortized cost.

G) Securitization of receivables
Proceeds on the securitization of receivables are recognized as a collateralized borrowing as we do not transfer control and substantially all
the risks and rewards of ownership to another entity.

H) Inventory
We measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Inventory includes all costs to purchase, convert and bring the inventories
to their present location and condition. We determine cost using specific identification for major equipment held for resale and the weighted
average cost formula for all other inventory. We maintain inventory valuation reserves for inventory that is slow-moving or potentially obsolete,
calculated using an inventory aging analysis.

I) Property, plant and equipment
We record property, plant and equipment at cost. Cost includes
expenditures that are attributable directly to the acquisition or
construction of the asset, including the purchase cost and labour.
Borrowing costs are capitalized for qualifying assets if the time to build
or develop the asset is in excess of one year, at a rate that is based
on the weighted average interest rate on our outstanding long-term
debt. Gains or losses on the sale or retirement of property, plant and
equipment are recorded in Other expense in the income statements.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Leases

182

We enter into leases for network infrastructure and equipment, land
and buildings in the normal course of business. Lease contracts are
typically made for fixed periods but may include purchase, renewal or
termination options. Leases are negotiated on an individual basis and
contain a wide range of different terms and conditions.

We adopted IFRS 16 – Leases as of January 1, 2019. Certain finance
leases entered into prior to 2019 were initially measured under IAS 17 –
Leases, as permitted by the transition provisions of IFRS 16.

IFrS 16
We assess whether a contract contains a lease at inception of the
contract. A lease contract conveys the right to control the use of an
identified asset for a period in exchange for consideration. We recognize
lease liabilities with corresponding right-of-use assets for all lease
agreements, except for short-term leases and leases of low value
assets, which are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

term. Consideration in a contract is allocated to lease and non-lease
components on a relative stand-alone value basis. We generally account
for lease components and any associated non-lease components as
a single lease component.
Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the lease
payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted
using our incremental borrowing rate, unless the rate implicit in the
lease is readily determinable. We apply a single incremental borrowing
rate to a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics. Lease payments
included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:

• fixed (and in-substance fixed) lease payments, less any lease incentives
• variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate
• payments expected under residual value guarantees and payments
relating to purchase options and renewal option periods that are
reasonably certain to be exercised (or periods subject to termination
options that are not reasonably certain to be exercised)

Lease liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using
the effective interest method. Lease liabilities are remeasured, with a
corresponding adjustment to the related right-of-use assets, when
there is a change in variable lease payments arising from a change
in an index or rate, or when we change our assessment of whether
purchase, renewal or termination options will be exercised.

Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, and are comprised of the
initial measurement of the corresponding lease liabilities, lease payments
made at or before the commencement date and any initial direct costs.
They are subsequently depreciated on a straight-line basis and reduced
by impairment losses, if any. Right-of-use assets may also be adjusted
to reflect the remeasurement of related lease liabilities. If we obtain
ownership of the leased asset by the end of the lease term or the cost
of the right-of-use asset reflects the exercise of a purchase option,
we depreciate the right-of-use asset from the lease commencement
date to the end of the useful life of the underlying asset. Otherwise,
we depreciate the right-of-use asset from the commencement date
to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the underlying asset or the
end of the lease term.
Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate are not
included in the measurement of lease liabilities and right-of-use assets.
The related payments are expensed in operating costs in the period
in which the event or condition that triggers those payments occurs.

IaS 17
Prior to 2019, under IAS 17, leases of property, plant and equipment
were recognized as finance leases when we obtained substantially
all the risks and rewards of ownership of the underlying assets. At
the inception of the lease, we recorded an asset together with a
corresponding long-term lease liability, at the lower of the fair value
of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum future lease
payments, excluding non-lease components.

Asset retirement obligations (AROs)

We initially measure and record AROs at management’s best estimate
using a present value methodology, adjusted subsequently for any
changes in the timing or amount of cash flows and changes in discount
rates. We capitalize asset retirement costs as part of the related assets
and amortize them into earnings over time. We also increase the ARO
and record a corresponding amount in interest expense to reflect the
passage of time.

J) Intangible assets

Finite-life intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated
amortization and accumulated impairment losses, if any.

Software
We record internal-use software at cost. Cost includes expenditures
that are attributable directly to the acquisition or development of the
software, including the purchase cost and labour.
Software development costs are capitalized when all the following
conditions are met:

• technical feasibility can be demonstrated
• management has the intent and the ability to complete the asset for
use or sale

• it is probable that economic benefits will be generated
• costs attributable to the asset can be measured reliably
Customer relationships
Customer relationship assets are acquired through business acquisitions
and are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.

program and feature film rights
We account for program and feature film rights as intangible assets
when these assets are acquired for the purpose of distribution through
broadcasting, digital media and streaming services. Program and feature
film rights, which include producer advances and licence fees paid in

advance of receipt of the program or film, are stated at acquisition cost
less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses, if
any. Programs and feature films under licence agreements are recorded
as assets for rights acquired and liabilities for obligations incurred when:

• we receive a broadcast master and the cost is known or reasonably
determinable for new program and feature film licences; or

• the licence term commences for licence period extensions or
syndicated programs

Related liabilities of programs and feature films are classified as
current or non-current, based on the payment terms. Amortization of
program and feature film rights is recorded in Operating costs in the
income statements.

Indefinite-life intangible assets

Brand assets, mainly comprised of the Bell, Bell Media and Bell MTS
brands, and broadcast licences are acquired through business
acquisitions and are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition,
less accumulated impairment losses, if any. Wireless spectrum licences
are recorded at acquisition cost, including borrowing costs when the
time to build or develop the related network is in excess of one year.
Borrowing costs are calculated at a rate that is based on the weighted
average interest rate on our outstanding long-term debt.

Currently, there are no legal, regulatory, competitive or other factors
that limit the useful lives of our indefinite-life intangible assets.

K) Depreciation and amortization
We depreciate property, plant and equipment and amortize finite-life
intangible assets on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
We review our estimates of useful lives on an annual basis and adjust
depreciation and amortization on a prospective basis, as required. Land
and assets under construction or development are not depreciated.

Estimated useful life

Property, plant and equipment
Network infrastructure and equipment

2 to 50 years

Buildings

5 to 50 years

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Finite-life intangible assets

Finite-life intangible assets
Software

2 to 12 years

Customer relationships

2 to 26 years

Program and feature film rights

Up to 5 years

183

L) Investments in associates and joint arrangements
Our financial statements incorporate our share of the results of our
associates and joint ventures using the equity method of accounting,
except when the investment is classified as held for sale. Equity income
from investments is recorded in Other expense in the income statements.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are recognized initially at
cost and adjusted thereafter to include the company’s share of income
or loss and comprehensive income or loss on an after-tax basis.

Investments are reviewed for impairment at each reporting period and
we compare their recoverable amount to their carrying amount when
there is an indication of impairment.
We recognize our share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of
joint operations in accordance with the related contractual agreements.

M) Business acquisitions and goodwill
Business acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration transferred in a business acquisition is measured
at fair value at the date of acquisition. Acquisition-related transaction
costs are expensed as incurred and recorded in Severance, acquisition
and other costs in the income statements.
Identifiable assets and liabilities, including intangible assets, of
acquired businesses are recorded at their fair values at the date of
acquisition. When we acquire control of a business, any previously-held
equity interest is remeasured to fair value and any gain or loss on

remeasurement is recognized in Other expense in the income statements.
The excess of the purchase consideration and any previously-held
equity interest over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired
is recorded as Goodwill in the statements of financial position. If the
fair value of identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the purchase
consideration and any previously-held equity interest, the difference
is recognized in Other expense in the income statements immediately
as a bargain purchase gain.

N) Impairment of non-financial assets
Goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets are tested for impairment
annually or when there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Property, plant and equipment and finite-life intangible assets are tested
for impairment if events or changes in circumstances, assessed at
each reporting period, indicate that their carrying amount may not be
recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets other than
goodwill are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately
identifiable cash inflows.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Impairment losses are recognized and measured as the excess of the
carrying value of the assets over their recoverable amount. An asset’s
recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal
and its value in use. Previously recognized impairment losses, other than
those attributable to goodwill, are reviewed for possible reversal at each
reporting date and, if the asset’s recoverable amount has increased,
all or a portion of the impairment is reversed.

Goodwill impairment testing

We perform an annual test for goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter
for each of our cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs to
which goodwill is allocated, and whenever there is an indication that
goodwill might be impaired.

We identify any potential impairment by comparing the carrying value
of a CGU or group of CGUs to its recoverable amount. The recoverable
amount of a CGU or group of CGUs is the higher of its fair value less
costs of disposal and its value in use. Both fair value less costs of disposal
and value in use are based on estimates of discounted future cash
flows or other valuation methods. Cash flows are projected based on
past experience, actual operating results and business plans, including
any impact from changes in interest rates and inflation. When the
recoverable amount of a CGU or group of CGUs is less than its carrying
value, the recoverable amount is determined for its identifiable assets
and liabilities. The excess of the recoverable amount of the CGU or
group of CGUs over the total of the amounts assigned to its assets and
liabilities is the recoverable amount of goodwill.
An impairment charge is recognized in the income statements for any
excess of the carrying value of goodwill over its recoverable amount.
For purposes of impairment testing of goodwill, our CGUs or groups
of CGUs correspond to our reporting segments as disclosed in Note 3,
Segmented information.

O) Financial instruments and contract assets
We measure trade and other receivables, including wireless device
financing plan receivables, at amortized cost using the effective interest
method, net of any allowance for doubtful accounts.
Our portfolio investments in equity securities are classified as fair
value through other comprehensive income and are presented in our
statements of financial position as Other non-current assets. These
securities are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition, including
related transaction costs, and are adjusted to fair value at each reporting
date. The corresponding unrealized gains and losses are recorded in

184

A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash
inflows that are independent of the cash inflows from other assets or
groups of assets.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Other comprehensive (loss) income in the consolidated statements of
comprehensive income (statements of comprehensive income) and are
reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to the deficit
in the statements of financial position when realized.
Other financial liabilities, which include trade payables and accruals,
compensation payable, obligations imposed by the Canadian Radiotelevision and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), interest payable
and long-term debt, are recorded at amortized cost using the effective
interest method.

We measure the allowance for doubtful accounts and impairment of
contract assets based on an expected credit loss (ECL) model, which
takes into account current economic conditions, historical information,
and forward-looking information, including higher interest rates and
inflation. We use the simplified approach for measuring losses based
on the lifetime ECL for trade and other receivables and contract assets.

Amounts considered uncollectible are written off and recognized in
Operating costs in the income statements.
The cost of issuing debt is included as part of long-term debt and is
accounted for at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
The cost of issuing equity is reflected in the consolidated statements
of changes in equity as a charge to the deficit.

P) Derivative financial instruments

Derivatives that mature within one year are included in Other current
assets or Trade payables and other liabilities in the statements of
financial position, whereas derivatives that have a maturity of more
than one year are included in Other non-current assets or Other
non-current liabilities.

Hedge accounting

Fair value hedges

We use cross currency interest rate swaps to manage foreign currency
and interest rate risk on certain U.S. dollar long-term debt. We use
interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk on certain Canadian
dollar long-term debt. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives
and the related debt are recognized in Other expense in the income
statements and offset each other, except for any ineffective portion of
the hedging relationship.

Cash flow hedges
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to manage
foreign currency risk relating to anticipated purchases denominated
in foreign currencies. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are
recognized in our statements of comprehensive income, except for any
ineffective portion of the hedging relationship, which is recognized in
Other expense in the income statements. Realized gains and losses in
accumulated other comprehensive loss are reclassified to the income
statements or to the initial cost of the related non-financial asset in the
same periods as the corresponding hedged transactions are recognized.

We use foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency
risk relating to our U.S. dollar debt under our commercial paper program,
securitization of receivables program and committed credit facilities.
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in Other
expense in the income statements and offset the foreign currency
translation adjustment on the related debt, except for any portion of
the hedging relationship which is ineffective.
We use cross currency interest rate swaps to manage foreign currency
and interest rate risk related to certain U.S. dollar long-term debt. We
also use interest rate swaps, including forward starting interest rate
swaps, to manage the interest rate risk related to certain Canadian
dollar long-term debt. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives
are recognized in our statements of comprehensive income, except for
amounts recorded in Other expense in the income statements to offset
the foreign currency translation adjustment on the related debt and
any portion of the hedging relationship which is ineffective.
We use forward starting interest rate swaps to manage interest rate
risk related to certain future debt issuances. Changes in the fair value
of these derivatives are recognized in our statements of comprehensive
income, except for any ineffective portion of the hedging relationship,
which is recognized in Other expense in the income statements.
Realized gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss
are reclassified to Interest expense in the income statements over the
term of the related debt.

Derivatives used as economic hedges

We use derivatives to manage cash flow exposures related to our equity
settled share-based payment plans and anticipated purchases in foreign
currencies, interest rate risk related to preferred share dividend rate
resets and interest rate risk related to existing and anticipated debt
issuances. As these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting,
the changes in their fair value are recorded in the income statements
in Other expense.

Q) Post-employment benefit plans

Defined benefit (DB) and other post-employment
benefit (OPEB) plans

We maintain DB pension plans that provide pension benefits for certain
employees and retirees. Benefits are based on the employee’s length
of service and average rate of pay during the highest paid consecutive
five years of service. Most employees are not required to contribute
to the plans. Certain plans provide cost of living adjustments to help
protect the income of retired employees against inflation.

We provide OPEBs to some of our employees, including:

• health care and life insurance benefits during retirement, which have

been phased out for new retirees since December 31, 2016. Most of
these OPEB plans are unfunded and benefits are paid when incurred.

• other benefits, including workers’ compensation and medical benefits

to former or inactive employees, their beneficiaries and dependants,
from the time their employment ends until their retirement starts,
under certain circumstances

Notes to consolidated financial statements

We use derivative financial instruments principally to manage risks
related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates and
cash flow exposures related to share-based payment plans, capital
expenditures, long-term debt instruments and operating expenses. We
do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading
purposes.

We are responsible for adequately funding our DB pension plans. We
make contributions to them based on various actuarial cost methods
permitted by pension regulatory bodies. Contributions reflect actuarial
assumptions about future investment returns, salary projections, future
service and life expectancy.

185

We accrue our obligations and related costs under post-employment
benefit plans, net of the fair value of the benefit plan assets. Pension
and OPEB costs are determined using:

post-employment benefit plans are recorded in Other comprehensive
(loss) income in the statements of comprehensive income in the period
in which they occur and are recognized immediately in the deficit.

• the projected unit credit method, prorated on years of service, which

December 31 is the measurement date for our significant postemployment benefit plans. Our actuaries perform a valuation based
on management’s assumptions at least every three years to determine
the actuarial present value of the accrued DB pension plans and OPEB
obligations. The most recent actuarial valuation of our significant pension
plans was as at December 31, 2022.

takes into account future pay levels

• a discount rate based on market interest rates of high-quality corporate

fixed income investments with maturities that match the timing of
benefits expected to be paid under the plans

• management’s best estimate of pay increases, retirement ages of
employees, expected healthcare costs and life expectancy

We value post-employment benefit plan assets at fair value using
current market values.
Post-employment benefit plans current service cost is included in
Operating costs in the income statements. Interest on our postemployment benefit plan assets and obligations is recognized in
Finance costs in the income statements and represents the accretion
of interest on the assets and obligations under our post-employment
benefit plans. The interest rate is based on market conditions that
existed at the beginning of the year. Actuarial gains and losses for all

Defined contribution (DC) pension plans

We maintain DC pension plans that provide certain employees with
benefits. Under these plans, we are responsible for contributing a
predetermined amount to an employee’s retirement savings, based
on a percentage of the employee’s salary.
We recognize a post-employment benefit plans service cost for
DC pension plans when the employee provides service to the company,
essentially coinciding with our cash contributions.

When eligible, new employees can only participate in the DC pension
plans.

R) Provisions
Provisions are recognized when all the following conditions are met:

• the company has a present legal or constructive obligation based
on past events

• it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required
to settle the obligation

• the amount can be reasonably estimated

S) Estimates and key judgments
When preparing the financial statements, management makes estimates
and judgments relating to:

Notes to consolidated financial statements

• reported amounts of revenues and expenses
• reported amounts of assets and liabilities
• disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
We base our estimates on a number of factors, including but not limited
to historical experience, current events, economic and financial market
conditions such as interest rates, inflation and the risk of recession,
geopolitical events and supply chain disruptions, and actions that the
company may undertake in the future, as well as other assumptions
that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. A change in
these assumptions may have an impact on our financial statements
including but not limited to impairment testing, fair value determination,
expected credit losses and discount rates used for the present value of
cash flows. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject
to measurement uncertainty and actual results could differ. Our more
significant estimates and judgments are described below.

Provisions are measured at the present value of the estimated
expenditures expected to settle the obligation, if the effect of the time
value of money is material. The present value is determined using
current market assessments of the discount rate and risks specific to
the obligation. The obligation increases as a result of the passage of
time, resulting in interest expense which is recognized in Finance costs
in the income statements.

Estimates

useful lives of property, plant and equipment
and finite-life intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant proportion of
our total assets. Changes in technology or our intended use of these
assets, climate change and our environmental, social and corporate
governance initiatives as well as changes in business prospects or
economic and industry factors, may cause the estimated useful lives
of these assets to change.

post-employment benefit plans
The amounts reported in the financial statements relating to DB pension
plans and OPEBs are determined using actuarial calculations that are
based on several assumptions.
The actuarial valuation uses management’s assumptions for, among
other things, the discount rate, life expectancy, the rate of compensation
increase, cost of living indexation rate, trends in healthcare costs and
expected average remaining years of service of employees.
The most significant assumptions used to calculate the net postemployment benefit plans cost are the discount rate and life expectancy.
The discount rate is based on the yield on long-term, high-quality
corporate fixed income investments, with maturities matching the
estimated cash flows of the post-employment benefit plans. Life
expectancy is based on publicly available Canadian mortality tables
and is adjusted for the company’s specific experience.

186

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

We are required to make estimates that affect the amount of revenue
from contracts with customers, including estimating the stand-alone
selling prices of products and services.

Impairment of non-financial assets
We make a number of estimates when calculating recoverable amounts
using discounted future cash flows or other valuation methods to test
for impairment. These estimates include the assumed growth rates for
future cash flows, the number of years used in the cash flow model
and the discount rate.

deferred taxes
The amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities are estimated with
consideration given to the timing, sources and amounts of future
taxable income.

leases
The application of IFRS 16 requires us to make estimates that affect the
measurement of right-of-use assets and liabilities, including determining
the appropriate discount rate used to measure lease liabilities. Lease
liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the lease payments
that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using our
incremental borrowing rate, unless the rate implicit in the lease is
readily determinable. Our incremental borrowing rate is derived from
publicly available risk-free interest rates, adjusted for applicable credit
spreads and lease terms. We apply a single incremental borrowing rate
to a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics.

Fair value of financial instruments
Certain financial instruments, such as investments in equity securities,
derivative financial instruments and certain elements of borrowings, are
carried in the statements of financial position at fair value, with changes
in fair value reflected in the income statements and the statements
of comprehensive income. Fair values are estimated by reference to
published price quotations or by using other valuation techniques that
may include inputs that are not based on observable market data, such
as discounted cash flows and earnings multiples.

Contingencies
In the ordinary course of business, we become involved in various
claims and legal proceedings seeking monetary damages and other
relief. Pending claims and legal proceedings represent a potential cost
to our business. We estimate the amount of a loss by analyzing potential
outcomes and assuming various litigation and settlement strategies,
based on information that is available at the time.

onerous contracts
A provision for onerous contracts is recognized when the unavoidable
costs of meeting our obligations under a contract exceed the expected
benefits to be received under the contract. The provision is measured
at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating
the contract and the expected net cost of completing the contract.

Judgments

post-employment benefit plans
The determination of the discount rate used to value our postemployment benefit obligations requires judgment. The rate is set by
reference to market yields of long-term, high-quality corporate fixed
income investments at the beginning of each fiscal year. Significant
judgment is required when setting the criteria for fixed income
investments to be included in the population from which the yield curve
is derived. The most significant criteria considered for the selection of
investments include the size of the issue and credit quality, along with
the identification of outliers, which are excluded.

Income taxes
The calculation of income taxes requires judgment in interpreting tax
rules and regulations. There are transactions and calculations for
which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our tax filings are
also subject to audits, the outcome of which could change the amount
of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Management judgment is used to determine the amounts of deferred tax
assets and liabilities to be recognized. In particular, judgment is required
when assessing the timing of the reversal of temporary differences to
which future income tax rates are applied.

leases
The application of IFRS 16 requires us to make judgments that affect
the measurement of right-of-use assets and liabilities. A lease contract
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period
of time in exchange for consideration. At inception of the contract, we
assess whether the contract contains an identified asset, whether we
have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from
use of the asset and whether we have the right to direct how and for
what purpose the asset is used. In determining the lease term, we
include periods covered by renewal options when we are reasonably
certain to exercise those options. Similarly, we include periods covered
by termination options when we are reasonably certain not to exercise
those options. To assess if we are reasonably certain to exercise an
option, we consider all facts and circumstances that create an economic
incentive to exercise renewal options (or not exercise termination
options). Economic incentives include the costs related to the termination
of the lease, the significance of any leasehold improvements and the
importance of the underlying assets to our operations.

revenue from contracts with customers
The identification of performance obligations within a contract and
the timing of satisfaction of performance obligations under long-term
contracts requires judgment. Additionally, the determination of costs to
obtain a contract, including the identification of incremental costs, also
requires judgment.

Cgus
The determination of CGUs or groups of CGUs for the purpose of
impairment testing requires judgment.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

revenue from contracts with customers

Contingencies
The determination of whether a loss is probable from claims and legal
proceedings and whether an outflow of resources is likely requires
judgment.

187

T) Adoption of amended accounting standards
As required, we adopted the following amendments to accounting standards issued by the IASB.
Standard

description

Impact

Disclosure of Accounting
Policies – Amendments
to IAS 1 – Presentation
of Financial Statements

These amendments require that entities disclose material accounting
policies, as defined, instead of significant accounting policies.

These amendments were adopted effective with
our annual financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 2023 and did not result in any
significant changes to our financial statements.

International Tax
Reform – Pillar Two Model
Rules – Amendments
to IAS 12 – Income Taxes

These amendments require that entities apply IAS 12 to income taxes arising
from tax law enacted or substantively enacted to implement the Pillar Two
model rules published by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development, including tax law that implements qualified domestic minimum
top-up taxes described in those rules (Pillar Two). As an exception to the
requirements in IAS 12, entities do not recognize or disclose information
about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two.

In May 2023, we adopted the amendments to
IAS 12 retrospectively. As required, we applied
the exception and do not recognize or disclose
information about deferred tax assets and liabilities
related to Pillar Two.

notE 3

Segmented information

The accounting policies used in our segment reporting are the same as
those we describe in Note 2, Material accounting policies. Our segments
reflect how we manage our business and how we classify our operations
for planning and measuring performance. Accordingly, we operate
and manage our segments as strategic business units organized by
products and services. Segments negotiate sales with each other as if
they were unrelated parties.
We measure the performance of each segment based on adjusted
EBITDA, which is equal to operating revenues less operating costs for
the segment. Substantially all of our severance, acquisition and other
costs, depreciation and amortization, finance costs and other (expense)
income are managed on a corporate basis and, accordingly, are not
reflected in segment results.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Substantially all of our operations and assets are located in Canada.

188

The adoption of these amendments did not have
a significant impact on our financial statements.

In 2022, we began modifying our internal and external reporting
processes to align with organizational changes that were made
to reflect an increasing strategic focus on multiproduct sales, the
continually increasing technological convergence of our wireless and
wireline telecommunications infrastructure and operations driven by
the deployment of our Fifth Generation (5G) and fibre networks, and
our digital transformation. These factors have made it increasingly
difficult to distinguish between our wireless and wireline operations
and resulted in changes in Q1 2023 to the financial information that is
regularly provided to our chief operating decision maker to measure
performance and allocate resources.
Effective with our Q1 2023 results, our previous Bell Wireless and Bell
Wireline operating segments were combined to form a single reporting
segment called Bell CTS. Bell Media remains a distinct reportable segment
and is unaffected. Our results are therefore reported in two segments:
Bell CTS and Bell Media. As a result of our reporting changes, prior
periods have been restated for comparative purposes.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Our Bell CTS segment provides a wide range of communication products
and services to consumers, businesses and government customers
across Canada. Wireless products and services include mobile data
and voice plans and devices and are available nationally. Wireline
products and services comprise data (including Internet access, Internet
protocol television (IPTV), cloud-based services and business solutions),
voice, and other communication services and products, which are
available to our residential, small and medium-sized business and
large enterprise customers primarily in Ontario, Québec, the Atlantic
provinces and Manitoba, while satellite TV service and connectivity to
business customers are available nationally across Canada. In addition,
this segment includes our wholesale business, which buys and sells local
telephone, long distance, data and other services from or to resellers
and other carriers, as well as the results of operations of our national
consumer electronics retailer, The Source (Bell) Electronics Inc. (The
Source). Subsequent to year end, Bell Canada announced a strategic
partnership with Best Buy Canada to operate 165 The Source consumer
electronics retail stores in Canada, which will be rebranded as Best
Buy Express and offer the latest in consumer electronics from Best Buy
along with exclusive telecommunications services from Bell. In addition,
Bell will wind down The Source head office and back office operations,
as well as close 107 The Source stores.
Our Bell Media segment provides conventional TV, specialty TV, pay TV,
streaming services, digital media services, radio broadcasting services
and OOH and advanced advertising services to customers nationally
across Canada.

Segmented information
For the year ended december 31, 2023

note

Inter-segment
eliminations

BCE

2,776

–

21,154

341

(370)

–

18,407

3,117

(370)

21,154

3,519

–

–

3,519

21,897

2,776

–

24,673

29

341

(370)

–

Bell CTS

Bell Media

18,378
29

Operating service revenues
External/Operating product revenues

Operating revenues
External service revenues
Inter-segment service revenues

Total external revenues
Total inter-segment revenues
Total operating revenues
Operating costs

5

Adjusted EBITDA (1)

21,926

3,117

(370)

24,673

(12,206)

(2,420)

370

(14,256)

9,720

697

–

10,417

6

(200)

17, 19

(4,918)

Interest expense

7

(1,475)

Net return on post-employment benefit plans

27

108

8

(143)

Other expense

9

(466)

Income taxes

10

(996)

Severance, acquisition and other costs
Depreciation and amortization
Finance costs

Impairment of assets

Net earnings

2,327

Goodwill

22

8,099

2,843

–

Indefinite-life intangible assets

19

8,052

1,763

–

9,815

4,421

160

–

4,581

Capital expenditures

10,942

(1) The chief operating decision maker uses primarily one measure of profit to make decisions and assess performance, being operating revenues less operating costs.

For the year ended december 31, 2022

note

Inter-segment
eliminations

BCE

2,904

–

20,956

350

(381)

–

18,083

3,254

(381)

20,956

3,218

–

–

3,218

21,270

2,904

–

24,174

31

350

(381)

–

21,301

3,254

(381)

24,174

(11,847)

(2,509)

381

(13,975)

9,454

745

–

10,199

Bell CtS

Bell Media

18,052
31

Operating service revenues
External/Operating product revenues

External service revenues
Inter-segment service revenues

Total external revenues
Total inter-segment revenues
Total operating revenues
Operating costs

5

Adjusted EBITDA (1)
Severance, acquisition and other costs

6

(94)

17, 19

(4,723)

Interest expense

7

(1,146)

Net return on post-employment benefit plans

27

51

8

(279)

Other expense

9

(115)

Income taxes

10

(967)

Depreciation and amortization
Finance costs

Impairment of assets

Net earnings

2,926

Goodwill

22

Indefinite-life intangible assets

19

Capital expenditures

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Operating revenues

7,960

2,946

–

10,906

7,980

1,846

–

9,826

4,971

162

–

5,133

(1) The chief operating decision maker uses primarily one measure of profit to make decisions and assess performance, being operating revenues less operating costs.

189

Revenues by services and products
The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by type of services and products.
For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

Services (1)
Wireless
Wireline data
Wireline voice
Media
Other wireline services

7,120
8,084
2,862
2,776
312

6,821
7,920
3,002
2,904
309

Total services

21,154

20,956

Products (2)
Wireless
Wireline

2,885
634

2,714
504

Total products

3,519

3,218

Total operating revenues

24,673

24,174

(1) Our service revenues are generally recognized over time.
(2) Our product revenues are generally recognized at a point in time.

notE 4

Business acquisitions and disposition

2023

Acquisition of FX Innovation

On June 1, 2023, Bell acquired FX Innovation, a Montréal-based provider of cloud-focused managed and professional services and workflow
automation solutions for business clients, for cash consideration of $157 million ($156 million net of cash acquired), of which $12 million is payable
within two years, and an estimated $6 million of additional cash consideration contingent on the achievement of certain performance objectives.
This contingent consideration is expected to be settled by 2027 and the maximum amount payable is $7 million. Contingent consideration is
estimated to be nil at December 31, 2023. The acquisition of FX Innovation aims to position Bell as a technology services leader for our enterprise
customers. The results of FX Innovation are included in our Bell CTS segment.
The following table summarizes the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value assigned to each major class of assets and liabilities.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

2023

Cash consideration paid
Cash consideration payable
Contingent consideration

145
12
6

Total cost to be allocated
Trade and other receivables
Other non-cash working capital
Indefinite-life intangible assets (1)
Finite-life intangible assets (2)
Other non-current assets
Trade payables and other liabilities
Contract liabilities
Debt due within one year
Deferred tax liabilities

163
23
4
29
23
4
(15)
(3)
(5)
(13)

Cash and cash equivalents

47
1

Fair value of net assets acquired

48

Goodwill (3)

115

(1) Consists of brand assets.
(2) Consists mainly of customer relationship assets and software.
(3) Goodwill arises principally from expected synergies and future growth and is not deductible for tax purposes. Goodwill was allocated to our Bell CTS group of CGUs.

Operating revenues of $50 million from FX Innovation are included in the income statements for the year ended December 31, 2023, from the
date of acquisition. BCE’s consolidated operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 would have been $24,715 million had the
acquisition of FX Innovation occurred on January 1, 2023. This proforma amount reflects the elimination of intercompany transactions and the
purchase price allocation. The transaction did not have a significant impact on our net earnings for 2023.

190

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Disposition of production studios

On May 3, 2023, we completed the sale of our 63% ownership in certain production studios, which were included in our Bell Media segment.
We received net cash proceeds of $211 million and recorded a gain on investment of $79 million (before tax expense of $17 million). See Note 9,
Other expense, for additional details.
The results of operations of the production studios up to the date of disposition on May 3, 2023 did not have a significant impact on our revenue
or net earnings for 2023.
The following table summarizes the carrying value of the assets and liabilities sold:
2023

Trade and other receivables
Prepaid expenses
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Total assets

1
1
179
4
76
261

Trade payables and other liabilities
Contract liabilities

10
3

Debt due within one year
Long-term debt
Deferred tax liabilities

11
82
3

Total liabilities
Non-controlling interest

109
23

Net assets sold

129

2022

Acquisition of Distributel Communications Limited (Distributel)

On December 1, 2022, Bell acquired Distributel, a national independent communications provider offering a wide range of consumer, business
and wholesale communications services, for cash consideration of $303 million ($282 million net of cash acquired) and $39 million of estimated
additional cash consideration contingent on the achievement of certain performance objectives. This contingent consideration was expected to
be settled by 2026 and the maximum contingent consideration payable was $65 million. Contingent consideration is estimated to be $49 million
at December 31, 2023 of which $19 million was paid in 2023. The remaining $30 million is expected to be paid in 2024. The acquisition of Distributel
is expected to support Bell’s strategy to grow residential and business customers. The results of Distributel are included in our Bell CTS segment.

The following table summarizes the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value assigned to each major class of assets and liabilities.
303
39

Total cost to be allocated
Trade and other receivables
Other non-cash working capital
Property, plant and equipment
Indefinite-life intangible assets (1)
Finite-life intangible assets (2)
Deferred tax assets
Other long-term assets
Trade payables and other liabilities
Contract liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities
Other long-term liabilities

342
7
7
29
70
68
7
2
(29)
(3)
(39)
(6)

Cash and cash equivalents

113
21

Fair value of net assets acquired

134

Goodwill (3)

208

Notes to consolidated financial statements

2022

Cash consideration
Contingent consideration

(1) Consists mainly of brand and digital assets.
(2) Consists mainly of customer relationship assets.
(3) Goodwill arises principally from expected synergies and future growth and is not deductible for tax purposes. Goodwill was allocated to our Bell CTS group of CGUs.

Operating revenues of $14 million from Distributel are included in the income statements for the year ended December 31, 2022, from the date of
acquisition. BCE’s consolidated operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 would have been $24,309 million had the acquisition
of Distributel occurred on January 1, 2022. This proforma amount reflects the elimination of intercompany transactions and the purchase price
allocation. The transaction did not have a significant impact on our net earnings for 2022.
191

Acquisition of EBOX and other related companies

In February 2022, Bell acquired EBOX and other related companies, which provide Internet, telephone and TV services to consumers and
businesses in Québec and parts of Ontario, for cash consideration of $153 million ($139 million net of cash acquired). The acquisition of EBOX
and other related companies is expected to accelerate growth in Bell’s residential and small business customers. The results of the acquired
companies are included in our Bell CTS segment.

The following table summarizes the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value assigned to each major class of assets and liabilities.
2022

Cash consideration

153

Total cost to be allocated

153

Other non-cash working capital

5

Property, plant and equipment

5

Indefinite-life intangible assets (1)

17

Finite-life intangible and other assets (2)

15

Trade payables and other liabilities

(17)

Contract liabilities

(5)

Deferred tax liabilities

(9)
11

Cash and cash equivalents

14

Fair value of net assets acquired

25

Goodwill (3)

128

(1) Consists of brand and digital assets.
(2) Consists mainly of customer relationship assets.
(3) Goodwill arises principally from expected synergies and future growth and is not deductible for tax purposes. Goodwill was allocated to our Bell CTS group of CGUs.

Operating revenues of $41 million from EBOX and other related parties are included in the income statements for the year ended December 31,
2022, from the date of acquisition. The transaction did not have a significant impact on net earnings for 2022.

notE 5

Operating costs

For the year ended december 31

note

2023

2022

(4,354)

(4,250)

Labour costs
Wages, salaries and related taxes and benefits
Post-employment benefit plans service cost (net of capitalized amounts)
Other labour costs (1)

27

(206)

(249)

(1,063)

(1,054)

1,217

1,136

(4,406)

(4,417)

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Less:
Capitalized labour
Total labour costs
Cost of revenues (2)

(7,926)

(7,641)

Other operating costs (3)

(1,924)

(1,917)

Total operating costs

(14,256)

(13,975)

(1) Other labour costs include contractor and outsourcing costs.
(2) Cost of revenues includes costs of wireless devices and other equipment sold, network and content costs, and payments to other carriers.
(3) Other operating costs include marketing, advertising and sales commission costs, bad debt expense, taxes other than income taxes, information technology costs, professional service
fees and rent.

Research and development expenses of $90 million and $57 million are included in operating costs for 2023 and 2022, respectively.

notE 6

192

Severance, acquisition and other costs

For the year ended december 31

2023

Severance

(134)

(83)

Acquisition and other

(66)

(11)

Total severance, acquisition and other costs

(200)

(94)

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

2022

Severance costs
Severance costs consist of charges related to involuntary and voluntary employee terminations.

Acquisition and other costs
Acquisition and other costs consist of transaction costs, such as legal and financial advisory fees, related to completed or potential acquisitions,
employee severance costs related to the purchase of a business, the costs to integrate acquired companies into our operations, costs relating
to litigation and regulatory decisions, when they are significant, and other costs.
Subsequent to year end, BCE announced a reduction of its workforce by approximately 4,800 positions, or 9% of all BCE employees in 2024,
which could result in severance payments up to approximately $400 million.

notE 7

Interest expense

For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

(1,391)

(1,148)

Interest expense on other debt

(219)

(126)

Capitalized interest

135

128

(1,475)

(1,146)

Interest expense on long-term debt

Total interest expense

Included in interest expense on long-term debt is interest on lease
liabilities of $193 million and $165 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively.

notE 8

Capitalized interest was calculated using an average rate of 4.31% and
3.83% for 2023 and 2022, respectively, which represents the weighted
average interest rate on our outstanding long-term debt.

Impairment of assets

2023
plans reviewed by senior management for the period of October 1, 2023
to December 31, 2028, using a discount rate of 9.5% and a perpetuity
growth rate of 0.0%. After impairments, the carrying value of our
impacted CGU was $62 million.
There was no impairment of Bell Media goodwill. See Note 22, Goodwill,
for further details.
Additionally in 2023, we recorded impairment charges of $57 million
related mainly to right-of-use assets for certain office spaces we
ceased using as part of our real estate optimization strategy as a result
of our hybrid work policy.

2022
During the fourth quarter of 2022, we recognized $147 million of
impairment charges for French TV channels within our Bell Media
segment. The impairment charges were the result of a reduction in
advertising demand in the industry resulting from economic uncertainties
and unfavourable impacts to assumptions for discount rates. These
charges included $94 million allocated to indefinite-life intangible assets
for broadcast licences, and $53 million to finite-life intangible assets for
program and feature film rights. The impairment was determined by
comparing the carrying value of the CGUs to their fair value less cost of
disposal. We estimated the fair value of the CGUs using the discounted
cash flow valuation models, which include five-year cash flow projections
derived from business plans reviewed by senior management for the
period of October 1, 2022 to December 31, 2027, using a discount rate

of 10.3% and a perpetuity growth rate of 0.5%. After impairments, the
carrying value of our impacted CGUs was $109 million. In previous
years’ impairment analysis, the company’s French Pay and French TV
channels were tested for recoverability as one French CGU. In 2022,
the French Pay channels were grouped with English Pay channels to
form one CGU as a result of Bell Media launching a single bilingual
premium pay product.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

During the fourth quarter of 2023, we recognized $86 million of
impairment charges for French TV channels within our Bell Media
segment. The impairment charges were the result of a reduction in
advertising demand in the industry resulting from economic uncertainties
and unfavourable impacts to market-based valuation assumptions.
These charges included $41 million allocated to indefinite-life intangible
assets for broadcast licences and brands, and $45 million to finite-life
intangible assets for program and feature film rights. The impairment
was determined by comparing the carrying value of the CGUs to their
fair value less cost of disposal. We estimated the fair value of the CGUs
using both discounted cash flows and market-based valuation models,
which include five-year cash flow projections derived from business

There was no impairment of Bell Media goodwill. See Note 22, Goodwill,
for further details.
Additionally in 2022, we recorded impairment charges of $132 million
related mainly to right-of-use assets for certain office spaces we
ceased using as part of our real estate optimization strategy as a result
of our hybrid work policy.

193

notE 9

Other expense

For the year ended december 31

Equity (losses) income from investments in associates and joint ventures

note

2023

2022

(581)

(42)

28

(19)

20

Loss on investment
Operations
Net mark-to-market losses on derivatives used to economically hedge equity settled
share-based compensation plans

29

(103)

(53)

Early debt redemption costs

25

(1)

(18)

Gains on investments

80

24

Interest income

67

22

Gains (losses) on retirements and disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

11

(27)

Other

33

(2)

(466)

(115)

Total other expense

Equity (losses) income from investments in associates and joint ventures
We recorded a loss on investment of $581 million and $42 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively, related to equity losses on our share of an
obligation to repurchase at fair value the minority interest in one of BCE’s joint ventures. The obligation is marked to market each reporting
period and the gain or loss on investment is recorded as equity gains or losses from investments in associates and joint ventures.

Gains on investments
In 2023, we completed the sale of our 63% ownership in certain production studios. We recorded net cash proceeds of $211 million and a gain
on investment of $79 million. See Note 4, Business acquisitions and disposition, for additional details.
In 2022, we completed the sale of our wholly-owned subsidiary 6362222 Canada Inc. (Createch) and recorded a gain on sale of $39 million.
Additionally, in 2022, we recorded a loss on investment of $13 million related to an obligation to repurchase at fair value the minority interest
in one of our subsidiaries.

Gains (losses) on disposals of property, plant and equipment
In 2023, in addition to losses recorded on retirements of property, plant and equipment, we sold land for total proceeds of $54 million and
recorded a gain of $53 million as part of our real estate optimization strategy.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

notE 10

Income taxes

The following table shows the significant components of income taxes deducted from net earnings.
For the year ended december 31

2022

(923)

(878)

Uncertain tax positions

8

91

Change in estimate relating to prior periods

9

8

(75)

(176)

1

(8)

(24)

(4)

8

–

(996)

(967)

Current taxes

Deferred taxes
Deferred taxes relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences
Change in estimate relating to prior periods
Recognition and utilization of loss carryforwards
Uncertain tax positions
Total income taxes

194

2023

Current taxes

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

The following table reconciles the amount of reported income taxes in the income statements with income taxes calculated at a statutory income
tax rate of 26.8% for both 2023 and 2022.
For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

Net earnings

2,327

2,926

996

967

Add back income taxes
Earnings before income taxes

3,323

3,893

Applicable statutory tax rate

26.8%

26.8%

(891)

(1,043)

Income taxes computed at applicable statutory rates
Non-taxable portion of gains on investments

5

4

Uncertain tax positions

16

91

Change in estimate relating to prior periods
Non-taxable portion of equity losses
Other
Total income taxes
Average effective tax rate

10

–

(149)

(18)

13

(1)

(996)

(967)

30.0%

24.8%

The following table shows aggregate current and deferred taxes relating to items recognized outside the income statements.
2022

2023
Other
comprehensive
(loss)/income

Deficit

other
comprehensive
loss

Current taxes

(2)

1

–

3

Deferred taxes

199

(8)

(73)

(7)

Total income taxes recovery (expense)

197

(7)

(73)

(4)

For the year ended december 31

deficit

non-capital
loss carryforwards

postemployment
benefit
plans

Indefinitelife
intangible
assets

property, plant
and equipment
and finite-life
intangible assets

other

total

January 1, 2022

63

(466)

(1,701)

(2,417)

(53)

(4,574)

net deferred tax liability

Income statements

(4)

15

(40)

(307)

148

(188)

Business acquisitions

1

–

(26)

(21)

3

(43)

Other comprehensive (loss)/income

–

(151)

–

–

78

(73)

Deficit

–

–

–

–

(7)

(7)

Other

–

–

–

–

16

16

December 31, 2022

60

(602)

(1,767)

(2,745)

185

(4,869)
(90)

Income statements

(23)

10

(35)

(36)

(6)

Business acquisitions/business disposition

(1)

–

(10)

(4)

(3)

(18)

Other comprehensive income

–

149

–

–

50

199
(8)

Deficit

–

–

–

–

(8)

Reclassified to liabilities held for sale

–

–

7

(1)

–

6

Other

–

–

–

5

2

7

December 31, 2023

36

(443)

(1,805)

(2,781)

220

(4,773)

At December 31, 2023, BCE had $156 million of non-capital loss
carryforwards. We:

At December 31, 2022, BCE had $251 million of non-capital loss
carryforwards. We:

• recognized a deferred tax asset of $36 million for $143 million of the

• recognized a deferred tax asset of $60 million for $231 million of the

• did not recognize a deferred tax asset for $13 million of non-capital

• did not recognize a deferred tax asset for $20 million of non-capital

At December 31, 2023, BCE had $55 million of unrecognized capital loss
carryforwards, which can be carried forward indefinitely.

At December 31, 2022, BCE had $67 million of unrecognized capital loss
carryforwards, which can be carried forward indefinitely.

non-capital loss carryforwards. These non-capital loss carryforwards
expire in varying annual amounts from 2028 to 2043.

loss carryforwards. This balance expires in varying annual amounts
from 2031 to 2043.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

The following table shows deferred taxes resulting from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognized
in the statements of financial position and their corresponding tax basis, as well as tax loss carryforwards.

non-capital loss carryforwards. These non-capital loss carryforwards
expire in varying annual amounts from 2025 to 2042.

loss carryforwards. This balance expires in varying annual amounts
from 2023 to 2042.

195

notE 11

Earnings per share

The following table shows the components used in the calculation of basic and diluted net earnings per common share for earnings attributable
to common shareholders.
For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

Net earnings attributable to common shareholders – basic

2,076

2,716

Dividends declared per common share (in dollars)

3.87

3.68

912.2

911.5

Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (in millions)
Weighted average number of common shares outstanding – basic
Assumed exercise of stock options (1)
Weighted average number of common shares outstanding – diluted (in millions)

–

0.5

912.2

912.0

(1) The calculation of the assumed exercise of stock options includes the effect of the average unrecognized future compensation cost of dilutive options. It excludes options for which the
exercise price is higher than the average market value of a BCE common share. The number of excluded options was 6,395,513 in 2023 and nil in 2022.

notE 12

Trade and other receivables

For the year ended december 31

note

Trade receivables (1)
Allowance for revenue adjustments
Allowance for doubtful accounts

29

2023

2022

3,959

4,102

(145)

(160)

(118)

(129)

Current tax receivable

12

48

Commodity taxes receivable

12

11

Other accounts receivable

311

266

4,031

4,138

Total trade and other receivables
(1) The details of securitized receivables are set out in Note 24, Debt due within one year.

Wireless device financing plan receivables
Wireless device financing plan receivables represent amounts owed to us under financing agreements that have not yet been billed. The current
portion of these balances is included in Trade receivables within the Trade and other receivables line item on our statements of financial position
and the long-term portion is included within the Other non-current assets line item on our statements of financial position.
The following table summarizes our wireless device financing plan receivables.
For the year ended december 31

note

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Current
Non-current

21

Total wireless device financing plan receivables (1)

2023

2022

1,052

1,021

401

386

1,453

1,407

(1) Excludes allowance for doubtful accounts and allowance for revenue adjustments on the current portion of $45 million and $46 million at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022,
respectively, and allowance for doubtful accounts and allowance for revenue adjustments on the non-current portion of $15 million at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022.

notE 13

Inventory

For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

238

Wireless devices and accessories

190

Merchandise and other

275

418

Total inventory

465

656

The total amount of inventory subsequently recognized as an expense in cost of revenues was $3,334 million and $3,184 million for 2023 and
2022, respectively.

196

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

notE 14

Contract assets and liabilities

The table below provides a reconciliation of the significant changes in the contract assets and the contract liabilities balances.
Contract assets (1)
For the year ended december 31

note

Contract liabilities

2023

2022

2023

2022

724

665

1,085

1,045

Revenue recognized included in contract liabilities at the beginning
of the year

–

–

(734)

(736)

Revenue recognized from contract liabilities included in contract assets
at the beginning of the year

84

89

–

–

Increase in contract liabilities during the year

–

–

785

794
–

Opening balance, January 1

Increase in contract liabilities included in contract assets during the year

(88)

(83)

–

Increase in contract assets from revenue recognized during the year

713

728

–

–

Contract assets transferred to trade receivables

(613)

(586)

8

14

–

–

–

8

Contract terminations transferred to trade receivables

(60)

(50)

(1)

(1)

Other

(25)

(39)

(55)

(39)

Ending balance, December 31

735

724

1,088

1,085

Acquisitions/(Disposition)

4

(1) Net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $18 million and $19 million at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. See Note 29, Financial and capital management, for
additional details.

notE 15

Contract costs

The table below provides a reconciliation of the contract costs balance.
For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

Opening balance, January 1

1,143

894

Incremental costs of obtaining a contract and contract fulfillment costs

892

807

Amortization included in operating costs

(623)

(558)

Ending balance, December 31

1,412

1,143

Contract costs are amortized over periods ranging from 12 to 95 months.

Assets held for sale

On February 8, 2024, Bell Media announced the sale of 45 radio stations
within the Bell Media segment. Completion of the sale is expected in
the fourth quarter of 2024, subject to regulatory approvals and other
closing conditions. Estimated proceeds for the stations and other radio
related assets being sold are expected to be $54 million, resulting in
an estimated gain of $9 million to be recorded in other expense upon
completion of the sale.

The following table summarizes the carrying value of the assets and
liabilities that are classified as held for sale at December 31, 2023.

The assets and liabilities of these radio stations were presented as held
for sale in our statements of financial position at December 31, 2023,
measured at the lower of the carrying amount and the estimated fair
value less costs to sell. Property, plant and equipment and leased
assets included in assets held for sale were no longer depreciated or
amortized effective December 2023.

Total assets held for sale

60

Total liabilities held for sale

15

Our results for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 included
revenues for these radio stations of $39 million and $42 million and
are recorded in the Bell Media segment. The transaction did not have
a significant impact on our net earnings for 2023 and 2022.

Net assets held for sale

45

note

2023

Property, plant and equipment

17

12

Intangible assets

19

26

Goodwill

22

22

Long-term debt

7

Deferred tax liabilities

6

Other non-current liabilities

2

Notes to consolidated financial statements

notE 16

197

notE 17

Property, plant and equipment

For the year ended december 31, 2023

note

Network
infrastructure
and equipment (1)

Land and
buildings (1)

Assets under
construction

Total

Cost
January 1, 2023

71,875

9,139

2,598

83,612

Additions

2,990

795

2,176

5,961

8

(103)

(100)

(195)

1,368

79

(2,317)

(870)
(1,612)

Business acquisitions/(business disposition)
Transfers

(1,557)

(53)

(2)

Impairment losses recognized in earnings

8

–

(42)

–

(42)

Reclassified to assets held for sale

16

(8)

(10)

–

(18)

74,676

9,805

2,355

86,836

January 1, 2023

49,236

5,120

–

54,356

Depreciation

3,254

491

–

3,745

(1)

(17)

–

(18)

(1,508)

(37)

–

(1,545)

23

2

–

25

(6)

–

–

(6)

(72)

(1)

–

(73)

50,926

5,558

–

56,484

January 1, 2023

22,639

4,019

2,598

29,256

December 31, 2023

23,750

4,247

2,355

30,352

assets under
construction

total

Retirements and disposals

December 31, 2023

Accumulated depreciation

Business disposition
Retirements and disposals
Transfers
Reclassified to assets held for sale

16

Other
December 31, 2023

Net carrying amount

(1) Includes right-of-use assets. See Note 18, Leases, for additional details.

For the year ended december 31, 2022

note

network
infrastructure
and equipment (1)

land and
buildings (1)

Cost
January 1, 2022

70,923

8,889

2,241

82,053

Additions

2,824

394

2,675

5,893

11

(28)

3

(14)

1,180

51

(2,318)

(1,087)

(3,063)

(35)

(3)

(3,101)

–

(132)

–

(132)

71,875

9,139

2,598

83,612

January 1, 2022

49,122

4,696

–

53,818

Depreciation

3,195

465

–

3,660

(14)

(7)

–

(21)

(3,025)

(28)

–

(3,053)

Business acquisitions/(business disposition)
Transfers

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Retirements and disposals
Impairment losses recognized in earnings
December 31, 2022

Accumulated depreciation

Business disposition
Retirements and disposals
Transfers
Other
December 31, 2022

2

(2)

–

–

(44)

(4)

–

(48)

49,236

5,120

–

54,356

Net carrying amount
January 1, 2022

21,801

4,193

2,241

28,235

December 31, 2022

22,639

4,019

2,598

29,256

(1) Includes right-of-use assets. See Note 18, Leases, for additional details.

198

8

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

notE 18

Leases

Right-of-use assets
BCE’s significant right-of-use assets under leases are satellites, office premises, land, cellular tower sites, retail outlets and OOH advertising
spaces. Right-of-use assets are presented in Property, plant and equipment in the statements of financial position.
For the year ended december 31, 2023

note

Network
infrastructure
and equipment

Land and
buildings

Total

Cost
3,693

4,119

7,812

Additions

832

729

1,561

Transfers

(219)

January 1, 2023

(215)

(4)

Business disposition

–

(20)

(20)

Lease terminations

(37)

(15)

(52)

–

(30)

(30)

(2)

(5)

(7)

4,271

4,774

9,045

January 1, 2023

1,804

1,858

3,662

Depreciation

425

364

789

Transfers

(113)

(1)

(114)

Business disposition

–

(3)

(3)

Lease terminations

(13)

(2)

(15)

December 31, 2023

2,103

2,216

4,319

Impairment losses recognized in earnings

8

Reclassified to assets held for sale
December 31, 2023

Accumulated depreciation

Net carrying amount
January 1, 2023

1,889

2,261

4,150

December 31, 2023

2,168

2,558

4,726

network
infrastructure
and equipment

land and
buildings

total

For the year ended december 31, 2022

note

January 1, 2022

3,240

3,931

7,171

Additions

681

336

1,017

Transfers

(195)

(6)

(201)

2

(11)

(9)

(35)

(7)

(42)

–

(124)

(124)

3,693

4,119

7,812

January 1, 2022

1,554

1,538

3,092

Depreciation

374

335

709

Transfers

(112)

(5)

(117)

Business disposition

–

(7)

(7)

Lease terminations

(12)

(3)

(15)

December 31, 2022

1,804

1,858

3,662

January 1, 2022

1,686

2,393

4,079

December 31, 2022

1,889

2,261

4,150

Business acquisitions/(business disposition)
Lease terminations
Impairment losses recognized in earnings
December 31, 2022

8

Accumulated depreciation

Net carrying amount

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Cost

199

Leases in net earnings
The following table provides the expenses related to leases recognized in net earnings.
For the year ended december 31

2023

Interest expense on lease liabilities

193

2022

165

Variable lease payment expenses not included in the measurement of lease liabilities

126

133

Expenses for leases of low value assets

63

60

Expenses for short-term leases

29

27

Leases in the statements of cash flows
Total cash outflow related to leases was $1,455 million and $1,272 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.

Additional disclosures
See Note 24, Debt due within one year, and Note 25, Long-term debt, for
lease liabilities balances included in the statements of financial position.

See Note 34, Commitments and contingencies, for leases committed
but not yet commenced as at December 31, 2023.

See Note 29, Financial and capital management, for a maturity analysis
of lease liabilities.

notE 19

Intangible assets
Finite-life
Software

Customer
relation­
ships

10,543

1,802

471

–

Business acquisitions/
(business disposition)

10

45

–

Transfers

897

–

–

Retirements and disposals

(576)

(69)

(2)

–

–

–

Indefinite-life
Other

Total

Brands

Spectrum
and other
licences

603

407

13,355

2,435

5,905

1,486

9,826

23,181

1,260

149

1,880

–

53

–

53

1,933

(4)

51

31

(7)

–

24

75

(27)

870

–

–

–

–

870

(4)

(651)

–

(2)

(9)

(11)

(662)

(45)

–

(45)

(34)

–

(17)

(51)

(96)

–

(1,165)

–

(1,165)

–

–

–

–

(1,165)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(26)

(26)

(26)

11,345

1,778

651

521

14,295

2,432

5,949

1,434

9,815

24,110

January 1, 2023

5,734

1,060

–

204

6,998

–

–

–

–

6,998

Amortization

1,033

98

–

42

1,173

–

–

–

–

1,173

Retirements and disposals

(574)

(69)

–

(2)

(645)

–

–

–

–

(645)

–

–

–

(25)

(25)

–

–

–

–

(25)

6,193

1,089

–

219

7,501

–

–

–

–

7,501

For the year ended
december 31, 2023

note

Program
and feature
film rights

Broadcast
licences

Total

Total
intangible
assets

Cost
January 1, 2023
Additions

Impairment losses
recognized in earnings

8

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Amortization included in
operating costs

200

Reclassified to assets
held for sale
December 31, 2023

16

Accumulated amortization

Transfers
December 31, 2023

Net carrying amount
January 1, 2023

4,809

742

603

203

6,357

2,435

5,905

1,486

9,826

16,183

December 31, 2023

5,152

689

651

302

6,794

2,432

5,949

1,434

9,815

16,609

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Finite-life
For the year ended
december 31, 2022

note

Software

Customer
program
relation­ and feature
ships
film rights

Indefinite-life
other

total

Brands

Spectrum
and other
licences

Broadcast
licences

total

total
intangible
assets

Cost
January 1, 2022

9,565

1,736

631

404

12,336

2,409

5,786

1,580

9,775

22,111

484

1

1,208

7

1,700

–

44

–

44

1,744

6

65

–

3

74

26

75

–

101

175

Transfers

1,087

–

–

–

1,087

–

–

–

–

1,087

Retirements and disposals

(599)

–

–

(7)

(606)

–

–

–

–

(606)

–

–

(53)

–

(53)

–

–

(94)

(94)

(147)

–

–

(1,183)

–

(1,183)

–

–

–

–

(1,183)

10,543

1,802

603

407

13,355

2,435

5,905

1,486

9,826

23,181

January 1, 2022

5,407

969

–

165

6,541

–

–

–

–

6,541

Amortization

926

91

–

46

1,063

–

–

–

–

1,063

Retirements and disposals

(599)

–

–

(7)

(606)

–

–

–

–

(606)

December 31, 2022

5,734

1,060

–

204

6,998

–

–

–

–

6,998

Additions
Business acquisitions

Impairment losses
recognized in earnings

8

Amortization included in
operating costs
December 31, 2022

Accumulated amortization

Net carrying amount
January 1, 2022

4,158

767

631

239

5,795

2,409

5,786

1,580

9,775

15,570

December 31, 2022

4,809

742

603

203

6,357

2,435

5,905

1,486

9,826

16,183

notE 20 Investments in associates and joint ventures
The following tables provide summarized financial information with respect to BCE’s associates and joint ventures. For more details on our
associates and joint ventures, see Note 35, Related party transactions.

2023

2022

Assets

For the year ended december 31

4,050

3,857

Liabilities

(3,875)

(2,641)

Total net assets

175

1,216

BCE’s share of net assets

323

608

(252)

–

BCE’s share of net liabilities

note

28

Income statements
For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

Revenues

2,722

2,335

Expenses

(3,832)

(2,456)

Total net losses

(1,110)

(121)

(553)

(61)

BCE’s share of net losses

note

9

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Statements of financial position

201

notE 21

Other non-current assets

For the year ended december 31

Long-term wireless device financing plan receivables

note

2023

2022

12

401

386

Long-term receivables
Derivative assets

29

331

255

116

233

Publicly-traded and privately-held investments

29

587

215

Investments (1)

29

216

184

63

82

1,714

1,355

Other
Total other non-current assets
(1) These amounts have been pledged as security related to obligations for certain employee benefits and are not available for general use.

notE 22

Goodwill

The following table provides details about the changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022.
BCE’s groups of CGUs for purposes of goodwill impairment testing correspond to our reporting segments.
note

Balance at January 1, 2022
Acquisitions

4

Balance at December 31, 2022

Bell CtS

Bell Media

BCE

7,626

2,946

10,572

334

–

334

7,960

2,946

10,906

Acquisitions, disposition and other

4

139

(81)

58

Reclassified to assets held for sale

16

–

(22)

(22)

8,099

2,843

10,942

Balance at December 31, 2023

Impairment testing
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or when there is an indication
that goodwill might be impaired, by comparing the carrying value of a
CGU or group of CGUs to its recoverable amount, where the recoverable
amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.

Recoverable amount

Notes to consolidated financial statements

The recoverable amount for each of the Bell CTS and Bell Media group
of CGUs is its value in use.
The recoverable amount for our groups of CGUs is determined by
discounting five-year cash flow projections derived from business plans
reviewed by senior management. The projections reflect management’s
expectations of revenue, adjusted EBITDA, capital expenditures, working
capital and operating cash flows, based on past experience and future
expectations of operating performance, including any impact from
changes in interest rates and inflation.

202

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using
perpetuity growth rates. None of the perpetuity growth rates exceeds
the long-term historical growth rates for the markets in which we
operate.

The discount rates are applied to the cash flow projections and are
derived from the weighted average cost of capital for each group
of CGUs.
The following table shows the key assumptions used to estimate the
recoverable amounts of our groups of CGUs.
assumptions used
groups of Cgus

perpetuity
growth rate

discount
rate

Bell CTS

1.5%

7.0%

Bell Media

0.7%

10.2%

We believe that any reasonable possible change in the key assumptions
on which the estimate of recoverable amount of the Bell CTS group
of CGUs is based would not cause its carrying amount to exceed its
recoverable amount.
For the Bell Media group of CGUs, a decrease of (0.3%) in the perpetuity
growth rate or an increase of 0.2% in the discount rate would have
resulted in its recoverable amount being equal to its carrying value.

notE 23 Trade payables and other liabilities
For the year ended december 31

note

Trade payables and accruals
Compensation payable
Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment Ltd. (MLSE) financial liability (1)

29

Commodity taxes payable
Derivative liabilities

29

Provisions

26

Other current liabilities
Total trade payables and other liabilities

2023

2022

3,308

3,602

599

607

–

149

143

108

107

106

65

74

507

575

4,729

5,221

(1) Represented BCE’s obligation to repurchase the BCE Master Trust Fund’s (Master Trust Fund) 9% interest in MLSE at a price not less than an agreed minimum price. In January 2023, BCE
repurchased the interest held by the Master Trust Fund, a trust fund that holds pension fund investments serving the pension obligations of the BCE group pension plan participants, in
MLSE for a cash consideration of $149 million.

notE 24

Debt due within one year
note

Weighted average
interest rate at
december 31, 2023

2023

Notes payable (1)

29

5.21%

207

869

Loans secured by receivables (2)

29

6.16%

1,588

1,588

Long-term debt due within one year (3)

25

3.60%

3,247

1,680

5,042

4,137

For the year ended december 31

Total debt due within one year

2022

(1) Includes commercial paper of $149 million in U.S. dollars ($197 million in Canadian dollars) and $627 million in U.S. dollars ($849 million in Canadian dollars) as at December 31, 2023 and
December 31, 2022, respectively, which were issued under our U.S. commercial paper program and have been hedged for foreign currency fluctuations with forward currency contracts.
See Note 29, Financial and capital management, for additional details.
(2) Loans secured by receivables totaled $1,200 million in U.S. dollars ($1,588 million in Canadian dollars) and $1,173 million in U.S. dollars ($1,588 million in Canadian dollars) as at December 31, 2023
and December 31, 2022, respectively, and have been hedged for foreign currency fluctuations with forward currency contracts. See Note 29, Financial and capital management, for
additional details.
(3) Included in long-term debt due within one year is the current portion of lease liabilities of $1,074 million and $930 million as at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.

In 2022, we entered into a new securitization program which replaced
our previous securitized trade receivables program and now includes
wireless device financing plan receivables. As a result, the maximum
amount available under our securitization program increased from
$1.3 billion at December 31, 2021 to $2.3 billion at December 31, 2022.
In 2023, we amended our securitization program to add sustainabilitylinked pricing. The amendment introduces a financing cost that varies
based on our performance of certain sustainability performance targets.
The following table provides further details on our securitized receivables
programs during 2023 and 2022.
2023

2022

Average interest rate
throughout the year

For the year ended december 31

5.72%

3.15%

Securitized receivables

3,320

3,353

The securitization program is recorded as a floating rate revolving loan
secured by certain receivables. We continue to service trade receivables
and wireless device financing plan receivables under the securitization
program, which matures in July 2025 unless previously terminated.
The lenders’ interest in the collection of these receivables ranks ahead
of our interests, which means that we are exposed to certain risks of
default on the amounts securitized.
We have provided various credit enhancements in the form of
overcollateralization and subordination of our retained interests.
The lenders have no further claim on our other assets if customers do
not pay the amounts owed.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Securitized receivables

Credit facilities
Bell Canada may issue notes under its Canadian and U.S. commercial
paper programs up to the maximum aggregate principal amount of
$3 billion in either Canadian or U.S. currency provided that at no time
shall such maximum amount of notes exceed $3.5 billion in Canadian
currency, which equals the aggregate amount available under Bell
Canada’s committed supporting revolving and expansion credit facilities
as at December 31, 2023. The total amount of the net available committed
revolving and expansion credit facilities may be drawn at any time.

In 2023, Bell Mobility Inc. (Bell Mobility) entered into a $600 million U.S.
dollar uncommitted trade loan agreement to finance certain purchase
obligations. Loan requests may be made until April 30, 2024, with each
loan having a term of up to 24 months. The loan agreement has been
hedged for foreign currency fluctuations. See Note 29, Financial and
capital management, for additional details.

203

The table below is a summary of our total bank credit facilities at December 31, 2023.
Total
available

Drawn

Letters of
credit

Commercial
paper
outstanding

Net
available

Committed credit facilities
3,500

–

–

197

3,303

Unsecured non-revolving credit facilities (3)

641

–

–

–

641

Other

106

–

81

–

25

4,247

–

81

197

3,969

Unsecured revolving and expansion credit facilities (1) (2)

Total committed credit facilities
Non-committed credit facilities
Bell Canada

2,159

–

862

–

1,297

Bell Mobility

794

476

–

–

318

Total non-committed credit facilities

2,953

476

862

–

1,615

Total committed and non-committed credit facilities

7,200

476

943

197

5,584

(1) Bell Canada’s $2.5 billion committed revolving credit facility expires in May 2028 and its $1 billion committed expansion credit facility expires in May 2026. In 2022, Bell Canada converted
its committed credit facilities into a sustainability-linked loan. The amendment introduces a borrowing cost that varies based on our performance of certain sustainability performance
targets.
(2) As of December 31, 2023, Bell Canada’s outstanding commercial paper included $149 million in U.S. dollars ($197 million in Canadian dollars). All of Bell Canada’s commercial paper outstanding
is included in Debt due within one year.
(3) In 2022, Bell Canada entered into two 30-year senior unsecured non-revolving credit facilities in the aggregate principal amount of up to $647 million to partly fund the expansion of its
broadband networks as part of government subsidy programs. In 2023, the maximum aggregate principal amount of such credit facilities was decreased to $641 million.

Restrictions
Some of our credit agreements:

• require us to meet specific financial ratios
• require us to offer to repay and cancel the credit agreement upon a change of control of BCE or Bell Canada
We are in compliance with all conditions and restrictions under such credit agreements.

notE 25 Long-term debt
For the year ended december 31

note

Weighted average
interest rate at
december 31, 2023

Maturity

2023

2022

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Debt securities
1997 trust indenture (1)

4.02%

2024–2053

19,768

16,747

1976 trust indenture

9.38%

2027–2054

975

975

2011 trust indenture

4.00%

2024

225

225

2016 U.S. trust indenture (2)

3.58%

2024–2052

7,529

6,525

1996 trust indenture (subordinated)

8.21%

2026–2031

275

275

Lease liabilities

5.82%

2024–2068

4,857

4,402

Bell Mobility trade loan (3)

6.98%

2025

Other
Total debt

476

–

422

449

34,527

29,598

Net unamortized discount

(33)

(34)

Unamortized debt issuance costs

(112)

(101)

(3,247)

(1,680)

31,135

27,783

Less:
Amount due within one year
Total long-term debt

24

(1) At December 31, 2023 and 2022, $1,625 million and $500 million, respectively, have been swapped from fixed to floating using interest rate swaps. As at December 31, 2023, $700 million
and $525 million have been swapped from fixed to floating with forward interest rate swaps starting in 2024 and 2028, respectively. See Note 29, Financial and capital management, for
additional details.
(2) At December 31, 2023 and 2022, notes issued under the 2016 U.S. trust indenture totaled $5,700 million and $4,850 million in U.S. dollars, respectively, and have been hedged for foreign
currency fluctuations with cross currency interest rate swaps, including $600 million in U.S. dollars, which has been swapped from fixed to floating. See Note 29, Financial and capital
management, for additional details.
(3) At December 31, 2023, loans incurred under the Bell Mobility trade loan agreement totaled $360 million in U.S. dollars and have been hedged for foreign currency fluctuations with cross
currency interest rate swaps. See Note 29, Financial and capital management, for additional details.

204

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Bell Canada’s debt securities have been issued in Canadian dollars with the exception of debt securities issued under the 2016 U.S. trust indenture,
which have been issued in U.S. dollars. All debt securities were issued at a fixed interest rate. We have entered into interest rate and cross
currency interest rate derivatives to manage interest rate risk as disclosed in Note 29, Financial and capital management.

Restrictions
Some of our debt agreements:

• impose covenants and new issue tests
• require us to make an offer to repurchase certain series of debt securities upon the occurrence of a change of control event as defined in the
relevant debt agreements

We are in compliance with all conditions and restrictions under such debt agreements.
All outstanding debt securities have been issued under trust indentures, are unsecured and have been guaranteed by BCE. All debt securities
have been issued in series and certain series are redeemable at Bell Canada’s option prior to maturity at the prices, times and conditions
specified for each series.

2023

On August 11, 2023, Bell Canada issued, under its 1997 trust indenture,
5.15% Series M-60 MTN debentures, with a principal amount of
$600 million, which mature on November 14, 2028. Additionally, on
the same date, Bell Canada issued under its 1997 trust indenture, 5.60%
Series M-61 MTN debentures, with a principal amount of $400 million,
which mature on August 11, 2053.
On May 11, 2023, Bell Canada issued, under its 2016 trust indenture,
5.100% Series US-8 Notes, with a principal amount of $850 million in
U.S. dollars ($1,138 million in Canadian dollars), which mature on May 11,
2033. The Series US-8 Notes have been hedged for foreign currency
fluctuations with cross currency interest rate swaps. See Note 29,
Financial and capital management, for additional details.

On February 9, 2023, Bell Canada issued, under its 1997 trust indenture,
4.55% Series M-58 MTN debentures, with a principal amount of
$1,050 million, which mature on February 9, 2030. Additionally, on
the same date, Bell Canada issued, under its 1997 trust indenture, 5.15%
Series M-59 MTN debentures, with a principal amount of $450 million,
which mature on February 9, 2053.
Subsequent to year end, on February 15, 2024, Bell Canada issued, under
its 2016 trust indenture, 5.200% Series US-9 Notes, with a principal
amount of $700 million in U.S. dollars ($942 million in Canadian dollars),
which mature on February 15, 2034. The Series US-9 Notes have been
hedged for foreign currency fluctuations with cross currency interest
rate swaps. Additionally, on the same date, Bell Canada issued, under
its 2016 trust indenture, 5.550% Series US-10 Notes, with a principal
amount of $750 million in U.S. dollars ($1,009 million in Canadian dollars),
which mature on February 15, 2054. The Series US-10 Notes have been
hedged for foreign currency fluctuations with cross currency interest
rate swaps and in addition, $336 million in Canadian dollars have been
hedged for changes in fair value with interest rate swaps.

2022
On November 10, 2022, Bell Canada issued, under its 1997 trust indenture,
5.85% Series M-57 MTN debentures, with a principal amount of $1 billion,
which mature on November 10, 2032.
On March 16, 2022, Bell Canada redeemed, prior to maturity, its 3.35%
Series M-26 MTN debentures, having an outstanding principal amount
of $1 billion, which were due on March 22, 2023. As a result, for the
year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized early debt redemption
charges of $18 million, which were recorded in Other expense in the
income statements.

On February 11, 2022, Bell Canada issued, under its 2016 trust indenture,
3.650% Series US-7 Notes, with a principal amount of $750 million in U.S.
dollars ($954 million in Canadian dollars), which mature on August 15,
2052. The Series US-7 Notes have been hedged for foreign currency
fluctuations with cross currency interest rate swaps. See Note 29,
Financial and capital management, for additional details.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

On November 14, 2023, Bell Canada issued, under its 1997 trust indenture,
5.85% Series M-57 medium-term note (MTN) debentures, with a principal
amount of $300 million, which mature on November 10, 2032. The
Series M-57 debentures were issued pursuant to a re-opening of an
existing series of MTN debentures. Additionally on the same date, Bell
Canada issued under its 1997 trust indenture, 5.25% Series M-62 MTN
debentures, with a principal amount of $700 million, which mature on
March 15, 2029.

205

notE 26 Provisions
For the year ended december 31

note

AROs

Other (1)

Total

165

197

362

Additions

6

39

45

Usage

(5)

(26)

(31)

Reversals

(3)

(22)

(25)

163

188

351

January 1, 2023

December 31, 2023
Current

23

30

35

65

Non-current

28

133

153

286

163

188

351

December 31, 2023
(1) Other includes environmental, legal, vacant space and other provisions.

AROs reflect management’s best estimates of expected future costs to restore current leased premises to their original condition prior to lease
inception. Cash outflows associated with our ARO liabilities are generally expected to occur at the restoration dates of the assets to which
they relate, which are long-term in nature. The timing and extent of restoration work that will be ultimately required for these sites is uncertain.

notE 27

Post-employment benefit plans

Post-employment benefit plans cost
We provide pension and other benefits for most of our employees. These
include DB pension plans, DC pension plans and OPEBs.
We operate our DB and DC pension plans under applicable Canadian
and provincial pension legislation, which prescribes minimum and
maximum DB funding requirements. Plan assets are held in trust, and
the oversight of governance of the plans, including investment decisions,
contributions to DB plans and the selection of the DC plans investment
options offered to plan participants, lies with the Risk and Pension Fund
Committee, a committee of our board of directors.

The interest rate risk is managed using a liability matching approach,
which reduces the exposure of the DB plans to a mismatch between
investment growth and obligation growth.
The longevity risk is managed using a longevity swap, which reduces
the exposure of the DB plans to an increase in life expectancy.

Components of post-employment benefit plans service cost
For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

DB pension

(128)

(193)

DC pension

(133)

(118)

(1)

(2)

56

64

(206)

(249)

For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

DB pension

149

84

OPEBs

(41)

(33)

Total net return on post-employment benefit plans

108

51

Notes to consolidated financial statements

OPEBs

Components of post-employment benefit plans financing income

206

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Less:
Capitalized benefit plans cost
Total post-employment benefit plans service cost

The statements of comprehensive income include the following amounts before income taxes.
Cumulative gains recognized directly in equity, January 1

2023

2022

985

419

Actuarial (losses) gains in other comprehensive (loss) income (1)

(835)

894

Decrease (increase) in the effect of the asset limit in other comprehensive (loss) income (2)

282

(328)

432

985

Cumulative gains recognized directly in equity, December 31
(1) The cumulative actuarial gains recognized in the statements of comprehensive income are $864 million at December 31, 2023.
(2) The cumulative increase in the effect of the asset limit recognized in the statements of comprehensive income is $432 million at December 31, 2023.

Components of post-employment benefit assets (obligations)

The following table shows the change in post-employment benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets.

Post-employment benefit obligations, January 1

opEB plans

total

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

(19,295)

(24,544)

(1,138)

(1,457)

(20,433)

(26,001)

Current service cost

(128)

(193)

(1)

(2)

(129)

(195)

Interest on obligations

(993)

(770)

(58)

(44)

(1,051)

(814)

Actuarial (losses) gains (1)

(1,572)

4,856

51

294

(1,521)

5,150

Benefit payments

1,401

1,366

72

70

1,473

1,436

Employee contributions

(8)

(9)

–

–

(8)

(9)

Other

–

(1)

–

1

–

–

Post-employment benefit obligations, December 31

(20,595)

(19,295)

(1,074)

(1,138)

(21,669)

(20,433)

Fair value of plan assets, January 1

23,355

28,040

327

351

23,682

28,391

1,195

875

17

11

1,212

886

692

(4,227)

(6)

(29)

686

(4,256)

Expected return on plan assets (2)
Actuarial gains (losses) (1)

(1,401)

(1,366)

(72)

(70)

(1,473)

(1,436)

Employer contributions

41

81

64

64

105

145

Employee contributions

8

9

–

–

8

9

Transfers to DC plans

(124)

(57)

–

–

(124)

(57)

2

–

–

–

2

–

Fair value of plan assets, December 31

23,768

23,355

330

327

24,098

23,682

Benefit payments

Other

Plan asset (deficit)

3,173

4,060

(744)

(811)

2,429

3,249

Effect of asset limit

(719)

(980)

–

–

(719)

(980)

Interest on effect of asset limit

(53)

(21)

–

–

(53)

(21)
2,248

Post-employment benefit asset (liability), December 31

2,401

3,059

(744)

(811)

1,657

Post-employment benefit assets

2,935

3,559

–

–

2,935

3,559

Post-employment benefit obligations

(534)

(500)

(744)

(811)

(1,278)

(1,311)

(1) Actuarial (losses) gains include experience gains of $734 million in 2023 and losses of ($4,729) million in 2022.
(2) The actual return (loss) on plan assets was $1,898 million or 8.8% in 2023 and ($3,370) million or (11.6%) in 2022.

Funded status of post-employment benefit plans

The following table shows the funded status of our post-employment benefit obligations.
Funded
For the year ended december 31

partially funded (1)

unfunded (2)

total

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

Present value of post-employment
benefit obligations

(20,004)

(18,741)

(1,453)

(1,461)

(212)

(231)

(21,669)

(20,433)

Fair value of plan assets

23,703

23,291

395

391

–

–

24,098

23,682

Plan surplus (deficit)

3,699

4,550

(1,058)

(1,070)

(212)

(231)

2,429

3,249

Effect of asset limit

(772)

(1,001)

–

–

–

–

(772)

(1,001)

Post-employment benefit asset (liability)

2,927

3,549

(1,058)

(1,070)

(212)

(231)

1,657

2,248

Notes to consolidated financial statements

dB pension plans

(1) The partially funded plans consist of supplementary executive retirement plans (SERPs) for eligible employees and certain OPEBs. The company partially funds the SERPs through letters
of credit and a retirement compensation arrangement account with Canada Revenue Agency. Certain paid-up life insurance benefits are funded through life insurance contracts.
(2) Our unfunded plans consist of certain OPEBs, which are paid as claims are incurred.

207

Significant assumptions

We used the following key assumptions to measure the post-employment benefit obligations and the net benefit plans cost for the DB pension
plans and OPEB plans. These assumptions are long-term, which is consistent with the nature of post-employment benefit plans.
dB pension plans and opEB plans
For the year ended december 31

2022

2023

Post-employment benefit obligations
Discount rate

4.6%

5.3%

Rate of compensation increase

2.25%

2.25%

Cost of living indexation rate (1)

1.6%

1.6%

Life expectancy at age 65 (years)

23.4

23.3

(1) Cost of living indexation rate is only applicable to DB pension plans.
dB pension plans and opEB plans
For the year ended december 31

2022

2023

Net post-employment benefit plans cost
Discount rate

5.3%

3.4%

Rate of compensation increase

2.25%

2.25%

Cost of living indexation rate (1)

1.6%

1.6%

Life expectancy at age 65 (years)

23.3

23.3

(1) Cost of living indexation rate is only applicable to DB pension plans.

The weighted average duration of the post-employment benefit
obligation is 12 years.

Assumed trend rates in healthcare costs have a significant effect on
the amounts reported for the healthcare plans.

We assumed the following trend rates in healthcare costs:

The following table shows the effect of a 1% change in the assumed
trend rates in healthcare costs.

• an annual increase in the cost of medication of 6.5% for 2023
decreasing to 4.0% over 20 years

• an annual increase in the cost of covered dental benefits of 4.5%
• an annual increase in the cost of covered hospital benefits of 3.7%
• an annual increase in the cost of other covered healthcare benefits

Effect on post-employment benefits –
increase/(decrease)

1% increase

1% decrease

Total service and interest cost

3

(3)

Post-employment benefit obligations

64

(47)

of 4.5%

Sensitivity analysis
The following table shows a sensitivity analysis of key assumptions used to measure the net post-employment benefit obligations and the net
post-employment benefit plans cost for our DB pension plans and OPEB plans.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Impact on net post-employment
benefit plans cost for 2023 –
increase/(decrease)
Increase in
assumption

decrease in
assumption

Increase in
assumption

decrease in
assumption

1,255

Discount rate

0.5%

(83)

78

(1,146)

Cost of living indexation rate

0.5%

55

(46)

1,007

(822)

Life expectancy at age 65

1 year

38

(39)

714

(735)

Post-employment benefit plan assets

The investment strategy for the post-employment benefit plan assets is to maintain a diversified portfolio of assets invested in a prudent manner
to maintain the security of benefits.
The following table shows the target allocations for 2023 and the allocation of our post-employment benefit plan assets at December 31, 2023
and 2022.
Weighted average
target allocation
asset category

2023

total plan assets fair value
December 31, 2023

december 31, 2022

15%

Equity securities

0%–40%

13%

Debt securities

50%–100%

55%

52%

0%–50%

32%

33%

100%

100%

Alternative investments
Total

208

Change in
assumption

Impact on post-employment benefit
obligations at december 31, 2023 –
increase/(decrease)

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

The following table shows the fair value of the DB pension plan assets for each category.
For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

Observable markets data
Equity securities
Canadian

858

824

Foreign

2,265

2,555

Canadian

10,284

9,904

Foreign

1,550

1,537

Money market

1,222

739

Debt securities

Non-observable markets inputs
Alternative investments
Private equities

831

1,017

Hedge funds

1,268

1,374

Real estate and infrastructure

4,221

4,297

Private debt

1,237

1,048

32

60

23,768

23,355

Other
Total

Equity securities included approximately $9 million of BCE common
shares, or 0.04% of total plan assets, at December 31, 2023 and
$11 million of BCE common shares, or 0.05% of total plan assets, at
December 31, 2022.
Debt securities included approximately $92 million of Bell Canada
debentures, or 0.39% of total plan assets, at December 31, 2023 and
approximately $85 million of Bell Canada debentures, or 0.40% of total
plan assets, at December 31, 2022.
Alternative investments included an investment in MLSE of $149 million,
or 0.64% of total plan assets, at December 31, 2022. In 2023, BCE
repurchased the Master Trust Fund’s interest for cash consideration of
$149 million. As such, the Master Trust Fund no longer has any investment
in MLSE as at December 31, 2023.

The Bell Canada Pension Plan has an investment arrangement which
hedges part of its exposure to potential increases in longevity, which
covers approximately $3 billion of post-employment benefit obligations.
The fair value of the arrangement is included within other alternative
investments.

Cash flows

We are responsible for adequately funding our DB pension plans. We
make contributions to them based on various actuarial cost methods
that are permitted by pension regulatory authorities. Contributions
reflect actuarial assumptions about future investment returns, salary
projections and future service benefits. Changes in these factors could
cause actual future contributions to differ from our current estimates
and could require us to increase contributions to our post-employment
benefit plans in the future, which could have a negative effect on our
liquidity and financial performance.

The following table shows the amounts we contributed to the DB and DC pension plans and the payments made to beneficiaries under OPEB plans.
dB plans

dC plans

opEB plans

For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

Contributions/payments

(41)

(81)

(11)

(59)

(64)

(64)

We expect to contribute approximately $45 million to our DB pension plans in 2024, subject to actuarial valuations being completed. We expect
to contribute approximately $10 million to the DC pension plans and to pay approximately $60 million to beneficiaries under OPEB plans in 2024.

notE 28 Other non-current liabilities
For the year ended december 31

Provisions

note

2023

2022

26

286

288

269

260

29

607

191

9, 20

252

–

303

331

1,717

1,070

Long-term disability benefits obligation
Derivative liabilities
Joint venture obligation
Other
Total other non-current liabilities

Notes to consolidated financial statements

We contribute to the DC pension plans as employees provide service.

209

notE 29 Financial and capital management

Financial management
Management’s objectives are to protect BCE and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis against material economic exposures and variability
of results from various financial risks, including credit risk, liquidity risk,
foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk.

Certain fair value estimates are affected by assumptions we make about
the amount and timing of future cash flows and discount rates, all of
which reflect varying degrees of risk. Income taxes and other expenses
that may be incurred on disposition of financial instruments are not
reflected in the fair values. As a result, the fair values may not be the
net amounts that would be realized if these instruments were settled.

Derivatives

We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to foreign
currency risk, interest rate risk and changes in the price of BCE common
shares.

The carrying values of our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments,
trade and other receivables, trade payables and other liabilities, interest
payable, dividends payable, notes payable and loans secured by
receivables approximate fair value as they are short-term. The carrying
value of wireless device financing plan receivables approximates
fair value given that their average remaining duration is short and
the carrying value is reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts
and an allowance for revenue adjustments. The carrying value of the
Bell Mobility trade loans approximates fair value given their average
remaining duration is short and they bear interest at a variable rate.

Fair value

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
at the measurement date.

The following table provides the fair value details of other financial instruments measured at amortized cost in the statements of financial position.

Debt securities
and other debt

December 31, 2023

december 31, 2022

Fair
value

Carrying
value

Fair
value

28,225

25,061

23,026

Classification

Fair value methodology

note

Carrying
value

Debt due within one year
and long-term debt

Quoted market price
of debt

24, 25

29,049

The following table provides the fair value details of financial instruments measured at fair value in the statements of financial position.
Fair value

Classification

note

Carrying value of
asset (liability)

Quoted prices in
active markets for
identical assets
(level 1)

21

587

10

–

577

observable
market data
(level 2) (1)

non-observable
market inputs
(level 3) (2)

Notes to consolidated financial statements

December 31, 2023

210

Publicly-traded and
privately-held investments (3)

Other non-current assets

Derivative financial instruments

Other current assets, trade
payables and other liabilities, other
non-current assets and liabilities

(488)

–

(488)

–

Other

Other non-current assets
and liabilities

147

–

216

(69)

215

9

–

206

72

–

72

–

December 31, 2022
Publicly-traded and
privately-held investments (3)

Other non-current assets

Derivative financial instruments

Other current assets, trade
payables and other liabilities, other
non-current assets and liabilities

MLSE financial liability (4)

Trade payables and other liabilities

Other

Other non-current assets
and liabilities

21

23

(149)

–

–

(149)

108

–

184

(76)

(1) Observable market data such as equity prices, interest rates, swap rate curves and foreign currency exchange rates.
(2) Non-observable market inputs such as discounted cash flows and revenue and earnings multiples. For certain privately-held investments, changes in our valuation assumption relating
to revenue and earnings multiples may result in a significant increase (decrease) in the fair value of our level 3 financial instruments.
(3) Unrealized gains and losses are recorded in Other comprehensive (loss) income in the statements of comprehensive income and are reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive
loss to the deficit in the statements of financial position when realized.
(4) Represented BCE’s obligation to repurchase the Master Trust Fund’s 9% interest in MLSE at a price not less than an agreed minimum price. In January 2023, BCE repurchased the interest
in MLSE held by the Master Trust Fund for a cash consideration of $149 million.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Credit risk

We are exposed to credit risk from operating activities and certain
financing activities, the maximum exposure of which is represented by
the carrying amounts reported in the statements of financial position.
We are exposed to credit risk if counterparties to our trade receivables,
including wireless device financing plan receivables, and derivative
instruments are unable to meet their obligations. The concentration of
credit risk from our customers is minimized because we have a large

and diverse customer base. There was minimal credit risk relating to
derivative instruments at December 31, 2023 and 2022. We deal with
institutions that have investment-grade credit ratings and we expect
that they will be able to meet their obligations. We regularly monitor
our credit risk and credit exposure, and consider, among other factors,
the effects of changes in interest rates and inflation.

The following table provides the change in allowance for doubtful accounts for trade receivables.
note

Balance, January 1
Additions
Usage and reversals
Balance, December 31

12

2023

2022

(129)
(126)
137

(136)
(109)
116

(118)

(129)

In many instances, trade receivables are written off directly to bad debt expense if the account has not been collected after a predetermined
period of time.
The following table provides further details on trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts.
at december 31

2023

2022

Trade receivables not past due
Trade receivables past due
Under 60 days
60 to 120 days
Over 120 days

3,158

3,215

421
209
53

434
253
71

Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts

3,841

3,973

2023

2022

Balance, January 1
Additions
Usage and reversals

(19)
(40)
41

(20)
(20)
21

Balance, December 31

(18)

(19)

Current
Non-current

(6)
(12)

(7)
(12)

(18)

(19)

note

Balance, December 31

14

Liquidity risk

Our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, amounts available under our securitized receivables program, cash flows from operations
and possible capital markets financing are expected to be sufficient to fund our operations and fulfill our obligations as they become due. Should
our cash requirements exceed the above sources of cash, we would expect to cover such a shortfall by drawing on existing committed bank
facilities and new ones, to the extent available.

The following table is a maturity analysis for recognized financial liabilities at December 31, 2023 for each of the next five years and thereafter.
at december 31, 2023

Total debt, excluding lease liabilities
Lease liabilities (1)
Notes payable
Loan secured by receivables
Interest payable on long-term debt, notes payable
and loan secured by receivables
Net (receipts) payments on cross currency interest
rate swaps and interest rate swaps
Total

note

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

thereafter

total

25

2,172
1,245
207
1,588

2,690
1,034
–
–

1,609
673
–
–

1,742
403
–
–

2,120
334
–
–

19,337
2,041
–
–

29,670
5,730
207
1,588

1,301

1,133

1,060

1,019

962

10,548

16,023

(6)

18

(5)

(11)

(9)

(70)

(83)

6,507

4,875

3,337

3,153

3,407

31,856

53,135

25
24
24

Notes to consolidated financial statements

The following table provides the change in allowance for doubtful accounts for contract assets.

(1) Includes imputed interest of $873 million.

We are also exposed to liquidity risk for financial liabilities due within one year as shown in the statements of financial position.
211

Market risk

Currency exposures
In 2023, we entered into cross currency interest rate swaps with a
notional amount of $360 million in U.S. dollars ($491 million in Canadian
dollars) to hedge the U.S. currency exposure of outstanding loans
maturing in 2025 under our Bell Mobility trade loan agreement. The fair
value of the cross currency interest rate swaps at December 31, 2023
was a net liability of $15 million recognized in Other current assets and
Other non-current liabilities in the statements of financial position. See
Note 24, Debt due within one year and Note 25, Long-term debt, for
additional details.
In 2023, we entered into cross currency interest rate swaps with a
notional amount of $850 million in U.S. dollars ($1,138 million in Canadian
dollars) to hedge the U.S. currency exposure of our US-8 Notes maturing
in 2033. The fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps at
December 31, 2023 was a net liability of $37 million recognized in Other
current assets, Trade payables and other liabilities and Other non-current
liabilities in the statements of financial position. See Note 25, Long-term
debt, for additional details.

In 2022, we entered into cross currency interest rate swaps with a
notional amount of $750 million in U.S. dollars ($954 million in Canadian
dollars) to hedge the U.S. currency exposure of our US-7 Notes maturing
in 2052. In connection with these swaps, we settled the forward starting
interest rate swaps and cross currency basis rate swaps entered into
in 2021, each of which had a notional amount of $127 million. The fair
value of the cross currency interest rate swaps at December 31, 2023
and December 31, 2022 was a liability of $132 million and $46 million,
respectively, recognized in Trade payables and other liabilities and
Other non-current liabilities in the statements of financial position. See
Note 25, Long-term debt, for additional details.
A 10% depreciation (appreciation) in the value of the Canadian dollar
relative to the U.S. dollar would result in a gain of $28 million (loss of
$100 million) recognized in net earnings at December 31, 2023 and a gain
of $124 million (loss of $123 million) recognized in Other comprehensive
(loss) income at December 31, 2023, with all other variables held constant.
A 10% depreciation (appreciation) in the value of the Canadian dollar
relative to the Philippine peso would result in a gain (loss) of $5 million
recognized in Other comprehensive (loss) income at December 31, 2023,
with all other variables held constant.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

The following table provides further details on our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts and options as at December 31, 2023.

212

type of hedge

Buy currency

Amount to receive

Cash flow (1)

USD

Cash flow

USD

Cash flow

USD

Cash flow

PHP

Sell currency

Amount to pay

Maturity

Hedged item

1,207

CAD

1,609

2024

Loans

150

CAD

201

2024

Commercial paper

624

CAD

790

2024

Anticipated purchases

2,885

CAD

69

2024

Anticipated purchases

Cash flow

USD

495

CAD

645

2025

Anticipated purchases

Economic

USD

210

CAD

277

2024

Anticipated purchases

Economic – options (2)

USD

175

CAD

225

2024

Anticipated purchases

Economic – call options

USD

244

CAD

327

2024

Anticipated purchases

Economic – call options

CAD

225

USD

156

2024

Anticipated purchases

Economic – put options

USD

519

CAD

675

2024

Anticipated purchases
Anticipated purchases

Economic

USD

120

CAD

158

2025

Economic – options (2)

USD

65

CAD

85

2025

Anticipated purchases

Economic – call options

USD

540

CAD

694

2025

Anticipated purchases

Economic – put options

USD

360

CAD

461

2025

Anticipated purchases

(1) Forward contracts to hedge loans secured by receivables under our securitization program. See Note 24, Debt due within one year, for additional information.
(2) Foreign currency options with a leverage provision and a profit cap limitation.

Interest rate exposures
In 2023, we sold interest rate swaptions with a notional amount of
$250 million to hedge economically the fair value of our Series M-53 MTN
debentures and we sold interest rate swaptions with a notional amount
of $425 million to hedge economically the floating interest rate exposure
relating to these debentures. These swaptions matured unexercised. In
2023, we also entered into interest rate swaps with a notional amount of
$125 million to hedge the fair value of our Series M-53 MTN debentures
maturing in 2027. In 2022, we sold interest rate swaptions with a
notional amount of $1,000 million to hedge economically the fair value
of our Series M-53 MTN debentures. Swaptions of a notional amount
of $500 million were exercised and the remaining swaptions matured
unexercised. The resulting interest rate swaps of a notional amount of
$500 million hedge the fair value of our Series M-53 MTN debentures.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2023 and 2022
was a net liability of $4 million and $14 million, respectively, recognized in
Trade payables and other liabilities, Other non-current assets and Other
non-current liabilities in the statements of financial position. A gain (loss)
BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

of $4 million and ($7) million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and
2022, respectively, relating to the interest rate swaptions is recognized
in Other expense in the income statements. See Note 25, Long-term
debt, for additional details.
In 2023, we entered into forward starting interest rate swaps, effective
from 2024, with a notional amount of $700 million to hedge the fair
value of our series M-62 MTN debentures maturing in 2029. The fair
value of the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2023 was an asset of
$22 million recognized in Other current assets and Other non-current
assets in the statements of financial position. See Note 25, Long-term
debt, for additional details.
In 2023, we sold interest rate swaptions with a notional amount
of $375 million to hedge economically the fair value of our Series
M-52 MTN debentures. These swaptions were exercised in 2023, giving
rise to a loss of $1 million recognized in Other expense in the income
statements. The resulting interest rate swaps with a notional amount
of $375 million hedge the fair value of our Series M-52 MTN debentures

In 2023, we sold interest rate swaptions with a notional amount of
$125 million to hedge economically the fair value of our Series M-57 MTN
debentures. These swaptions were exercised in 2023, giving rise to a
loss of $2 million recognized in Other expense in the income statements.
The resulting interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $125 million
hedge the fair value of our Series M-57 MTN debentures maturing in
2032. In 2023, we also entered into additional interest rate swaps with
a notional amount of $375 million to hedge the fair value of our Series
M-57 MTN debentures. The fair value of the interest rate swaps at
December 31, 2023 was a net asset of $24 million recognized in Other
current assets, Trade payables and other liabilities, Other non-current
assets and Other non-current liabilities in the statements of financial
position. See Note 25, Long-term debt, for additional details.
In 2023, we entered into forward starting interest rate swaps, effective
from 2028, with a notional amount of $125 million to hedge the fair value
of our series M-59 MTN debentures maturing in 2053. In 2023, we also
entered into forward starting interest rate swaps, effective from 2028,
with a notional amount of $400 million to hedge the fair value of our
series M-61 MTN debentures maturing in 2053. The fair value of the
interest rate swaps at December 31, 2023 was an asset of $48 million
recognized in Other non-current assets in the statements of financial
position. See Note 25, Long-term debt, for additional details.

date of these cross currency basis rate swaps was extended to 2024
resulting in an increase in their notional amount to $644 million at
December 31, 2023. The fair value of the cross currency basis rate
swaps at December 31, 2023 and 2022 was a liability of $13 million
and $33 million, respectively, recognized in Trade payables and
other liabilities in the statements of financial position. A gain (loss) of
$20 million and ($33) million for the year ended December 31, 2023
and 2022, respectively, relating to the basis rate swaps is recognized
in Other expense in the income statements.
We use leveraged interest rate options to hedge economically the
dividend rate resets on $582 million of our preferred shares which
had varying reset dates in 2021 for the periods ending in 2026. The
fair value of the leveraged interest rate options at December 31, 2023
and 2022 was nil and a liability of $1 million, respectively, recognized
in Trade payables and other liabilities and Other non-current liabilities
in the statements of financial position.
A 1% increase (decrease) in interest rates would result in a loss (gain)
of $26 million recognized in net earnings at December 31, 2023, with
all other variables held constant.
A 0.1% increase (decrease) in cross currency basis swap rates would
result in a gain (loss) of $11 million recognized in net earnings at
December 31, 2023, with all other variables held constant.

Equity price exposures

In 2023, we entered into an amortizing interest rate swap with an initial
notional amount of $197 million, to hedge the interest rate exposure on
other debt maturing in 2028. The fair value of the amortizing interest rate
swap at December 31, 2023 was a net liability of $2 million recognized in
Other current assets and Other non-current liabilities in the statements
of financial position.

We use equity forward contracts on BCE’s common shares to hedge
economically the cash flow exposure related to the settlement of equity
settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of our equity
forward contracts at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 was
a net liability of $162 million and $48 million, respectively, recognized
in Other current assets, Trade payables and other liabilities, Other
non-current assets and Other non-current liabilities in the statements
of financial position. A loss of $103 million and $53 million for the year
ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, relating to the
equity forward contracts is recognized in Other expense in the income
statements. See Note 31, Share-based payments, for additional details.

In 2022, we entered into cross currency basis rate swaps maturing
in 2023 with a notional amount of $638 million to hedge economically
the basis rate exposure on future debt issuances. In 2023, the maturity

A 5% increase (decrease) in the market price of BCE’s common shares
would result in a gain (loss) of $29 million recognized in net earnings at
December 31, 2023, with all other variables held constant.

Capital management
We have various capital policies, procedures and processes which
are utilized to seek to achieve our objectives for capital management.
These include optimizing our cost of capital and maximizing shareholder
return while balancing the interests of our stakeholders.
Our definition of capital includes equity attributable to BCE shareholders,
debt, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
In 2023 and 2022, the key ratios that we used to monitor and manage
our capital structure were a net debt leverage ratio (1) and an adjusted
EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio (2). In 2023 and 2022, our
net debt leverage ratio target range was 2.0 to 2.5 times adjusted
EBITDA and our adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense
ratio target was greater than 7.5 times. At December 31, 2023, we had
exceeded the limit of our internal net debt leverage ratio target range

by 0.98 and exceeded our adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest
expense ratio target by 0.56. Going forward, our objective is to see our
net debt leverage ratio decline over time to be in the range of 3.0 times
adjusted EBITDA. While currently in excess of this level, our net debt
leverage ratio is still consistent with a strong balance sheet, ample
financial flexibility and investment grade credit ratings. Additionally,
given the correlation between adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest
expense ratio and the net debt leverage ratio, we are simplifying our
internal targets to reflect the net debt leverage ratio only and will not
report against adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense in the
future. We believe that this ratio is of less relative importance to our
investors, lenders and other stakeholders as a measure of the strength
of our capital structure.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

maturing in 2030. In 2023, we also entered into additional interest rate
swaps with a notional amount of $125 million to hedge the fair value
of our Series M-52 MTN debentures. The fair value of the interest rate
swaps at December 31, 2023 was a net asset of $12 million recognized
in Other current assets, Trade payables and other liabilities and Other
non-current assets in the statements of financial position. See Note 25,
Long-term debt, for additional details.

(1) Our net debt leverage ratio represents net debt divided by adjusted EBITDA. We define net debt as debt due within one year plus long-term debt and 50% of preferred shares, less cash,
cash equivalents and short-term investments, as shown in our statements of financial position. For the purposes of calculating our net debt leverage ratio, adjusted EBITDA is twelve-month
trailing adjusted EBITDA.
(2) Our adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio represents adjusted EBITDA divided by adjusted net interest expense. We define adjusted net interest expense as twelve-month
trailing net interest expense as shown in our statements of cash flows plus 50% of twelve-month trailing net earnings attributable to preferred shareholders as shown in our income
statements. For the purposes of calculating our adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net interest expense ratio, adjusted EBITDA is twelve-month trailing adjusted EBITDA.

213

We believe that certain investors and analysts use our net debt leverage
ratio as a measure of financial leverage and health of the company.
The following table provides a summary of our key ratios.
at december 31

2023

2022

Net debt leverage ratio

3.48

3.30

Adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net
interest expense ratio

6.94

8.50

On February 7, 2024, the board of directors of BCE approved an increase
of 3.1% in the annual dividend on BCE’s common shares, from $3.87 to
$3.99 per common share.
On February 1, 2023, the board of directors of BCE approved an increase
of 5.2% in the annual dividend on BCE’s common shares, from $3.68 to
$3.87 per common share.
In Q4 2023, BCE renewed its normal course issuer bid program (NCIB)
with respect to its First Preferred Shares. See Note 30, Share capital,
for additional details.

notE 30 Share capital

Preferred shares
BCE’s articles of amalgamation, as amended, provide for an unlimited number of First Preferred Shares and Second Preferred Shares, all without
par value. The terms set out in the articles authorize BCE’s directors to issue the shares in one or more series and to set the number of shares
and the conditions for each series.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

The following table provides a summary of the principal terms of BCE’s First Preferred Shares as at December 31, 2023. There were no Second
Preferred Shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2023. BCE’s articles of amalgamation, as amended, describe the terms and conditions
of these shares in detail.

214

Series

annual
dividend
rate

Convertible
into

Conversion date

redemption date

redemption
price

number of shares
issued and
outstanding

December 31, 2023

Q

floating

Series R

December 1, 2030

At any time

$25.50

–

–

–

R (1)

3.018%

Series Q

December 1, 2025

December 1, 2025

$25.00

7,764,800

194

200

Stated capital
december 31, 2022

S

floating

Series T

November 1, 2026

At any time

$25.50

2,054,167

51

53

T (1)

4.99%

Series S

November 1, 2026

November 1, 2026

$25.00

5,301,633

132

146

Y

floating

Series Z

December 1, 2027

At any time

$25.50

6,451,752

161

175

Z (1)

5.346%

Series Y

December 1, 2027

December 1, 2027

$25.00

2,708,031

68

74

AA (1)

4.94%

Series AB

September 1, 2027

September 1, 2027

$25.00

11,482,631

293

312

AB

floating

Series AA

September 1, 2027

At any time

$25.50

6,918,839

176

195

AC (1)

5.08%

Series AD

March 1, 2028

March 1, 2028

$25.00

6,482,274

165

255
254

AD

floating

Series AC

March 1, 2028

At any time

$25.50

12,513,726

319

AE

floating

Series AF

February 1, 2025

At any time

$25.50

6,022,513

151

162

AF (1)

3.865%

Series AE

February 1, 2025

February 1, 2025

$25.00

9,076,087

227

237
223

AG (1)

3.37%

Series AH

May 1, 2026

May 1, 2026

$25.00

8,442,830

211

AH

floating

Series AG

May 1, 2026

At any time

$25.50

4,784,070

120

125

AI (1)

3.39%

Series AJ

August 1, 2026

August 1, 2026

$25.00

9,246,640

231

237

AJ

floating

Series AI

August 1, 2026

At any time

$25.50

4,118,260

103

111

AK (1)

3.306%

Series AL

December 31, 2026

December 31, 2026

$25.00

22,303,812

558

578

AL (2)

floating

Series AK

December 31, 2026

At any time

1,755,688

44

45

AM (1)

2.939%

Series AN

March 31, 2026

March 31, 2026

$25.00

10,183,378

233

239

AN (2)

floating

Series AM

March 31, 2026

At any time

1,035,822

24

24

AO (3)

fixed

Series AP

–

–

–

AP (3)

floating

Series AO

–

–

–

AQ (1)

6.538%

Series AR

September 30, 2028

September 30, 2028

8,303,614

206

225

AR (4)

floating

Series AQ

September 30, 2033

At any time

$25.00

–

–

–

3,667

3,870

(1) BCE may redeem each of these series of First Preferred Shares on the applicable redemption date and every five years thereafter.
(2) BCE may redeem Series AL and AN First Preferred Shares at $25.00 per share on December 31, 2026 and March 31, 2026, respectively, and every five years thereafter (each, a Series
conversion date). Alternatively, BCE may redeem Series AL or AN First Preferred Shares at $25.50 per share on any date which is not a Series conversion date for the applicable series of
First Preferred Shares.
(3) On March 31, 2022, BCE redeemed its 4,600,000 issued and outstanding Series AO First Preferred Shares with a stated capital of $118 million for a total cost of $115 million. The remaining
$3 million was recorded to contributed surplus.
(4) If Series AR First Preferred Shares are issued on September 30, 2028, BCE may redeem such shares at $25.00 per share on September 30, 2033 and every five years thereafter (each, a
Series conversion date). Alternatively, BCE may redeem Series AR Preferred Shares at $25.50 per share on any date which is not a Series conversion date for such series of First Preferred
Shares.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Normal course issuer bid for BCE
First Preferred Shares

Priority and entitlement to dividends

The First Preferred Shares of all series rank at parity with each other
and in priority to all other shares of BCE with respect to payment of
dividends and with respect to distribution of assets in the event of
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of BCE.

On November 2, 2023, BCE announced the renewal of its NCIB to
purchase for cancellation up to 10% of the public float of each series of
BCE’s outstanding First Preferred Shares that are listed on the Toronto
Stock Exchange. The NCIB will extend up to November 8, 2024, or an
earlier date should BCE complete its purchases under the NCIB.

Holders of Series R, T, Z, AA, AC, AF, AG, AI, AK, AM and AQ First Preferred
Shares are entitled to fixed cumulative quarterly dividends. The dividend
rate on these shares is reset every five years, as set out in BCE’s articles
of amalgamation, as amended.

In 2023, BCE repurchased and canceled 8,124,533 First Preferred Shares
under its NCIB with a stated capital of $203 million for a total cost of
$140 million. The remaining $63 million was recorded to contributed
surplus.

Holders of Series S, Y, AB, AD, AE, AH and AJ First Preferred Shares
are entitled to floating adjustable cumulative monthly dividends. The
floating dividend rate on these shares is calculated every month, as
set out in BCE’s articles of amalgamation, as amended.

Subsequent to year end, BCE repurchased and canceled 1,412,388 First
Preferred Shares under its NCIB with a stated capital of $36 million for
a total cost of $25 million. The remaining $11 million was recorded to
contributed surplus.

Holders of Series AL and AN First Preferred Shares are entitled to
floating cumulative quarterly dividends. The floating dividend rate on
these shares is calculated every quarter, as set out in BCE’s articles of
amalgamation, as amended.

On November 3, 2022, BCE announced the renewal of its NCIB to
purchase for cancellation up to 10% of the public float of each series
of BCE’s outstanding First Preferred Shares that are listed on the
Toronto Stock Exchange. The NCIB extended from November 9, 2022
to November 8, 2023.

Dividends on all series of First Preferred Shares are paid as and when
declared by the board of directors of BCE.

Conversion features

In 2022, BCE repurchased and canceled 584,300 First Preferred Shares
with a stated capital of $15 million for a total cost of $10 million. The
remaining $5 million was recorded to contributed surplus.

All of the issued and outstanding First Preferred Shares at
December 31, 2023 are convertible at the holder’s option into another
associated series of First Preferred Shares on a one-for-one basis
according to the terms set out in BCE’s articles of amalgamation, as
amended.

Voting rights

All of the issued and outstanding First Preferred Shares at
December 31, 2023 are non-voting, except under special circumstances
when the holders are entitled to one vote per share.

Common shares and Class B shares
BCE’s articles of amalgamation provide for an unlimited number of voting common shares and non-voting Class B shares, all without par value.
The common shares and the Class B shares rank equally in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets if BCE is liquidated, dissolved
or wound up, after payments due to the holders of preferred shares. No Class B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2023 and 2022.
The following table provides details about the outstanding common shares of BCE.

note

Outstanding, January 1
Shares issued under deferred share plan
Shares issued under employee stock option plan
Unclaimed shares (1)
Outstanding, December 31

31

Stated
capital

number of
shares

Stated
capital

911,982,866

20,840

909,018,871

20,662

843

–

11,003

1

306,139

19

2,952,992

177

(15,303)

–

–

–

912,274,545

20,859

911,982,866

20,840

(1) Represents unclaimed shares following the expiry of former Manitoba Telecom Services Inc. (MTS) shareholders’ rights to receive BCE common shares in connection with the acquisition
of MTS.

Contributed surplus

Contributed surplus in 2023 and 2022 includes premiums in excess of par value upon the issuance of BCE common shares and share-based
compensation expense net of settlements.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

2022

2023
Number of
shares

215

notE 31

Share-based payments

The following share-based payment amounts are included in the income statements as operating costs.
For the year ended december 31

2023

ESP

(29)

2022

(28)

RSUs/PSUs

(62)

(69)

DSUs and stock options

(4)

(4)

Total share-based payments

(95)

(101)

Description of the plans
ESP

The ESP is designed to encourage employees of BCE and its participating
subsidiaries to own shares of BCE. Employees can choose to have up to
12% of their eligible annual earnings withheld through regular payroll
deductions for the purchase of BCE common shares. In some cases,
the employer also contributes up to 2% of the employee’s eligible
annual earnings to the plan. Dividends are credited to the participant’s
account on each dividend payment date and are equivalent in value to
the dividends paid on BCE common shares. Employer contributions to
the ESP and related dividends are subject to employees holding their
shares for a two-year vesting period.
The trustee of the ESP buys BCE common shares for the participants on
the open market, by private purchase or from treasury. BCE determines
the method the trustee uses to buy the shares.

At December 31, 2023, 4,360,087 common shares were authorized for
issuance from treasury under the ESP. At December 31, 2023 and 2022,
there were 1,077,613 and 1,028,161 unvested employer ESP contributions,
respectively.

RSUs/PSUs

RSUs/PSUs are granted to executives and other eligible employees.
Dividends in the form of additional RSUs/PSUs are credited to the
participant’s account on each dividend payment date and are equivalent
in value to the dividends paid on BCE common shares. Executives and
other eligible employees are granted a specific number of RSUs/PSUs
for a given performance period based mainly on their level and position.
RSUs/PSUs vest fully after three years of continuous employment from
the date of grant and if performance objectives are met for certain
PSUs, as determined by the board of directors.

The following table summarizes RSUs/PSUs outstanding at December 31, 2023 and 2022.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

number of rSus/pSus

2023

2022

Outstanding, January 1

3,124,187

3,085,667

Granted (1)

1,125,502

1,016,211

Dividends credited

213,427

173,100

Settled

(957,402)

(1,061,392)

Forfeited

(92,902)

(89,399)

Outstanding, December 31

3,412,812

3,124,187

Vested, December 31 (2)

1,225,815

887,158

(1) The weighted average fair value of the RSUs/PSUs granted was $61 in 2023 and $66 in 2022.
(2) The RSUs/PSUs vested on December 31, 2023 were fully settled in February 2024 with BCE common shares and/or DSUs.

DSUs

Eligible bonuses and RSUs may be paid in the form of DSUs when
executives or other eligible employees elect or are required to participate
in the plan. The value of a DSU at the issuance date is equal to the value of
one BCE common share. For non-management directors, compensation
is paid in DSUs until the minimum share ownership requirement is met;
thereafter, at least 50% of their compensation is paid in DSUs. There
are no vesting requirements relating to DSUs. Dividends in the form
of additional DSUs are credited to the participant’s account on each
dividend payment date and are equivalent in value to the dividends
paid on BCE common shares. DSUs are settled when the holder leaves
the company.

At December 31, 2023 and 2022, there were 3,573,182 and 3,321,167 DSUs
outstanding, respectively.

216

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Stock options

Under BCE’s long-term incentive plans, BCE may grant options to
executives to buy BCE common shares. The subscription price of a
grant is based on the higher of:

• the volume-weighted average of the trading price on the trading day
immediately prior to the effective date of the grant

• the volume-weighted average of the trading price for the last five

consecutive trading days ending on the trading day immediately
prior to the effective date of the grant

At December 31, 2023, in addition to the stock options outstanding,
4,496,051 common shares were authorized for issuance under these
plans. Options vest fully after three years of continuous employment
from the date of grant. All options become exercisable when they vest
and can be exercised for a period of seven years from the date of grant
for options granted prior to 2019 and ten years from the date of grant
for options granted since 2019.

The following table summarizes stock options outstanding at December 31, 2023 and 2022.
2022

2023
Number
of options

Weighted average
exercise price
($)

number
of options

Weighted average
exercise price
($)

7,802,108

61

10,778,724

60

(306,139)

60

(2,952,992)

58

(11,408)

63

(23,624)

65

Outstanding, December 31

7,484,561

61

7,802,108

61

Exercisable, December 31

7,484,561

61

4,539,188

58

note

Outstanding, January 1
Exercised (1)

30

Forfeited or expired

(1) The weighted average market share price for options exercised was $63 in 2023 and $69 in 2022.

The following table provides additional information about BCE’s stock option plans at December 31, 2023 and 2022.
Stock options outstanding
2022

2023
range of exercise prices

Number

Weighted average
remaining life
(years)

Weighted average
exercise price
($)

number

Weighted average
remaining life
(years)

Weighted average
exercise price
($)

$50–$59

4,291,180

3

58

4,510,298

4

58

$60 & above

3,193,381

6

65

3,291,810

7

65

7,484,561

4

61

7,802,108

5

61

notE 32 Additional cash flow information
The following table provides a reconciliation of changes in assets and liabilities arising from financing activities.

note

January 1, 2023

Debt due
within one
year and
long-term
debt

Derivative
to hedge
foreign
currency
on debt (1)

Dividends
payable

31,920

(307)

867

Other
liabilities (2)

253

Total

32,733

Decrease in notes payable

(646)

–

–

–

(646)

Issue of long-term debt

5,195

–

–

–

5,195

Repayment of long-term debt

(1,858)

–

–

–

(1,858)

Repurchase of financial liability

–

–

–

(149)

(149)

Cash dividends paid on common and preferred shares

–

–

(3,668)

–

(3,668)

Cash dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests

36

Other financing activities
Total cash flows from (used in) financing activities excluding equity

–

–

(47)

–

(47)

(24)

–

–

–

(24)

2,667

–

(3,715)

(149)

(1,197)

Non-cash changes arising from
Increase in lease liabilities
Dividends declared on common and preferred shares
Dividends declared by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates

1,562

–

–

–

1,562

–

–

3,717

–

3,717
47

–

–

47

–

(169)

169

–

–

–

–

–

–

5
(93)

Business acquisitions

4

5

Business disposition

4

(93)

–

–

–

(7)

–

–

–

(7)

292

(15)

(6)

(26)

245

Total non-cash changes

1,590

154

3,758

(26)

5,476

December 31, 2023

36,177

(153)

910

78

37,012

Reclassification to liabilities held for sale
Other

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Cash flows from (used in) financing activities

(1) Included in Other current assets, Trade payables and other liabilities and Other non-current liabilities in the statements of financial position.
(2) We have reclassified amounts from the previous period to make them consistent with the presentation for the current period.

217

note

debt due
within one
year and
long-term
debt

January 1, 2022

derivative
to hedge
foreign
currency
on debt (1)

29,673

79

dividends
payable

811

other
liabilities (2)

294

total

30,857

Cash flows from (used in) financing activities
Increase in notes payable

42

69

–

–

111

Issue of long-term debt

1,951

–

–

–

1,951

Repayment of long-term debt

(2,023)

–

–

–

(2,023)

–

–

(3,448)

–

(3,448)

–

–

(39)

–

(39)

Increase in securitized trade receivables

700

–

–

–

700

Other financing activities

(13)

–

–

(18)

(31)

657

69

(3,487)

(18)

(2,779)

Cash dividends paid on common and preferred shares
Cash dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests

36

Total cash flows from (used in) financing activities excluding equity
Non-cash changes arising from

1,008

–

–

–

1,008

Dividends declared on common and preferred shares

Increase in lease liabilities

–

–

3,508

–

3,508

Dividends declared by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests

–

–

39

–

39

437

(437)

–

–

–

8

–

–

–

8

Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates
Business acquisitions
Business disposition

(14)

–

–

–

(14)

Other

151

(18)

(4)

(23)

106

Total non-cash changes

1,590

(455)

3,543

(23)

4,655

December 31, 2022

31,920

(307)

867

253

32,733

(1) Included in Other current assets, Other non-current assets and Trade payables and other liabilities in the statements of financial position.
(2) We have reclassified amounts from the previous period to make them consistent with the presentation for the current period.

notE 33 Remaining performance obligations
The following table shows revenues expected to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially
unsatisfied) as at December 31, 2023.
2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

thereafter

total

Bell CTS

3,019

1,713

765

375

171

482

6,525

Bell Media

35

–

–

–

–

–

35

3,054

1,713

765

375

171

482

6,560

Notes to consolidated financial statements

Total

218

When estimating minimum transaction prices allocated to the remaining unfulfilled, or partially unfulfilled, performance obligations, BCE applied
the practical expedient to not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have an original expected duration of one
year or less and for those contracts where we bill the same value as that which is transferred to the customer.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

notE 34 Commitments and contingencies

Commitments
The following table is a summary of our contractual obligations at December 31, 2023 that are due in each of the next five years and thereafter.
Commitments for property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

thereafter

total

2,043

1,513

599

316

246

1,041

5,758

Purchase obligations

619

513

537

314

219

820

3,022

Planned acquisition of OUTFRONT Media Inc.

410

–

–

–

–

–

410

2

6

–

–

–

–

8

3,074

2,032

1,136

630

465

1,861

9,198

Leases committed not yet commenced
Total

Our commitments for property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets include program and feature film rights and investments to
expand and update our networks to meet customer demand.
Purchase obligations consist of contractual obligations under service
and product contracts for operating expenditures and other purchase
obligations.
Our commitments for leases not yet commenced include real estate,
OOH advertising spaces and fibre use. These leases are non-cancellable.

On October 23, 2023, Bell Media announced it plans to acquire the
Canadian OOH media business of OUTFRONT Media Inc. The transaction
is valued at $410 million, subject to certain adjustments, and is expected
to close in the first half of 2024, subject to regulatory approval and
other closing conditions. The acquisition of the Canadian OOH media
business of OUTFRONT Media Inc. is expected to support Bell Media’s
digital media strategy and to deliver impactful, multi-channel marketing
solutions coast-to-coast. The results of the Canadian OOH business
of OUTFRONT Media Inc. will be included in our Bell Media segment.

Contingencies

The August 2019 decision was stayed, first by the Federal Court of
Appeal and then by the CRTC, with the result that it never came into
effect. In response to review and vary applications filed by each of
Bell Canada, five major cable carriers (Cogeco Communications Inc.,
Bragg Communications Inc. (Eastlink), Rogers Communications
Canada Inc., Shaw Communications Inc. and Videotron Ltée) and Telus
Communications Inc., the CRTC issued Decision 2021-182 on May 27,
2021, which mostly reinstated the rates prevailing prior to August 2019
with some reductions to the Bell Canada rates with retroactive effect to
March 2016. As a result, in Q2 2021, we recorded a reduction in revenue
of $44 million in our income statements.

While there remains a requirement to refund monies to third-party
Internet resellers, the establishment of final wholesale rates that
are similar to those prevailing since 2019 reduces the impact of the
CRTC’s long-running review of wholesale Internet rates. The largest
reseller, TekSavvy Solutions Inc. (TekSavvy), obtained leave to appeal
the CRTC’s decision of May 27, 2021 before the Federal Court of Appeal.
Oral hearings are now complete and we are awaiting a decision of
the court. The decision was also challenged in three petitions brought
by TekSavvy, the Canadian Network Operators Consortium Inc. and
National Capital Freenet before Cabinet, but on May 26, 2022, Cabinet
announced it would not alter the decision.
In the ordinary course of business, we become involved in various claims
and legal proceedings seeking monetary damages and other relief. In
particular, because of the nature of our consumer-facing business, we
are exposed to class actions pursuant to which substantial monetary
damages may be claimed. Due to the inherent risks and uncertainties
of the litigation process, we cannot predict the final outcome or timing
of claims and legal proceedings. Subject to the foregoing, and based on
information currently available and management’s assessment of the
merits of the claims and legal proceedings pending at March 7, 2024,
management believes that the ultimate resolution of these claims and
legal proceedings is unlikely to have a material and negative effect on
our financial statements. We believe that we have strong defences and
we intend to vigorously defend our positions.

Notes to consolidated financial statements

As part of its ongoing review of wholesale Internet rates, on October 6,
2016, the CRTC significantly reduced, on an interim basis, some of the
wholesale rates that Bell Canada and other major providers charge
for access by third-party Internet resellers to fibre-to-the-node (FTTN)
or cable networks, as applicable. On August 15, 2019, the CRTC further
reduced the wholesale rates that Internet resellers pay to access network
infrastructure built by facilities-based providers like Bell Canada, with
retroactive effect back to March 2016.

219

notE 35 Related party transactions

Subsidiaries
The following table shows BCE’s significant subsidiaries at December 31, 2023. BCE has other subsidiaries which have not been included in the
table as each represents less than 10% individually and less than 20% in aggregate of total consolidated revenues.
All of these significant subsidiaries are incorporated in Canada and provide services to each other in the normal course of operations. The value
of these transactions is eliminated on consolidation.
ownership percentage
Subsidiary

2023

2022

Bell Canada

100%

100%

Bell Mobility Inc.

100%

100%

Bell Media Inc.

100%

100%

Transactions with joint arrangements and associates
During 2023 and 2022, BCE provided communication services and received programming content and other services in the normal course
of business on an arm’s length basis to and from its joint arrangements and associates. Our joint arrangements and associates include MLSE,
Glentel Inc. and Dome Productions Partnership. From time to time, BCE may be required to make capital contributions in its investments.
In 2023, BCE recognized revenues and incurred expenses with our joint arrangements and associates of $12 million (2022 – $10 million) and
$200 million (2022 – $187 million), respectively.

BCE Master Trust Fund
Bimcor Inc. (Bimcor), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bell Canada, is the administrator of the Master Trust Fund. Bimcor recognized management
fees of $15 million for 2023 and $13 million for 2022 from the Master Trust Fund. The details of BCE’s post-employment benefit plans are set out
in Note 27, Post-employment benefit plans.

Compensation of key management personnel

Notes to consolidated financial statements

The following table includes compensation of key management personnel for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 included in our
income statements. Key management personnel have the authority and responsibility for overseeing, planning, directing and controlling our
business activities and consists of our Board of Directors and our Executive Leadership Team.

220

For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

Wages, salaries, fees and related taxes and benefits

(28)

(28)

Post-employment benefit plans and OPEBs cost

(3)

(4)

Share-based compensation

(30)

(38)

Key management personnel compensation expense

(61)

(70)

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

notE 36 Significant partly-owned subsidiary
The following tables show summarized financial information for our subsidiary with significant non-controlling interest (NCI).

Summarized statements of financial position
CtV Specialty (1) (2)
For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

Current assets

466

400

Non-current assets

941

958

1,407

1,358

Current liabilities

153

140

Non-current liabilities

239

246

Total liabilities

392

386

Total equity attributable to BCE shareholders

707

678

NCI

308

294

Total assets

(1) At December 31, 2023 and 2022, the ownership interest held by NCI in CTV Specialty Television Inc. (CTV Specialty) was 29.9%. CTV Specialty was incorporated and operated in Canada
as at such dates.
(2) CTV Specialty’s net assets at December 31, 2023 and 2022 include $7 million and $5 million, respectively, directly attributable to NCI.

Selected income and cash flow information
CtV Specialty (1)
For the year ended december 31

2023

2022

Operating revenues

969

986

Net earnings

209

180

Net earnings attributable to NCI

65

57

Total comprehensive income

196

198

Total comprehensive income attributable to NCI

61

63

Cash dividends paid to NCI

47

39

Notes to consolidated financial statements

(1) CTV Specialty’s net earnings and total comprehensive income include $3 million and $4 million directly attributable to NCI for 2023 and 2022, respectively.

221

Board of directors
As of March 7, 2024
gordon M. nixon,

robert p. dexter

louis p. pagnutti,

C.M., O.Ont.

NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA

FCPA, FCA

ONTARIO, CANADA

ONTARIO, CANADA

Chair and
Chief Executive Officer,
Maritime Travel Inc.

ONTARIO, CANADA

Corporate Director

Corporate Director

Director since November 2014

Calin rovinescu, C.M.

Corporate Director
Chair of the Board,
BCE Inc. and Bell Canada
Director since November 2014

Mirko Bibic
ONTARIO, CANADA

President and
Chief Executive Officer,
BCE Inc. and Bell Canada
Director since January 2020

david F. denison,
FCPA, FCA
ONTARIO, CANADA

Corporate Director
Director since October 2012

Katherine lee

Director since November 2020

Jennifer tory, C.M.

Director since April 2021

louis Vachon,
C.M., O.Q.

ONTARIO, CANADA

QUÉBEC, CANADA

ONTARIO, CANADA

Corporate Director

Corporate Director

Director since April 2016

Operating Partner,
J.C. Flowers & Co.

Director since August 2015

Karen Sheriff

Monique F. leroux,
C.M., O.Q., FCPA, FCA
QUÉBEC, CANADA

Corporate Director
Director since April 2016

Sheila a. Murray

ONTARIO, CANADA

Director since October 2022

Johan Wibergh

Corporate Director

BARBADOS

Director since April 2017

Corporate Director

robert C. Simmonds
ONTARIO, CANADA

ONTARIO, CANADA

Chair,
Lenbrook Corporation

Corporate Director

Director since May 2011

Director since May 2020

Director since November 2023

Cornell Wright
ONTARIO, CANADA

President,
Wittington Investments, Limited
Director since April 2021

Committees of the Board
Audit
committee

Corporate governance
committee

l.p. pagnutti (Chair), K. lee,
M.F. leroux, J. tory, C. Wright

M.F. leroux (Chair), d.F. denison,
K. lee, K. Sheriff, r.C. Simmonds,
C. Wright

The audit committee assists
the Board in the oversight of:

• the integrity of BCE’s

financial statements and
related information

• BCE’s compliance with applicable

legal and regulatory requirements

• the independence,

qualifications and appointment
of the external auditors

• the performance of both the
Board of directors / Executives

external and internal auditors

222

• management’s responsibility
for assessing and reporting
on the effectiveness of
internal controls

• BCE’s risks as they relate
to financial reporting.

The CGC assists the Board to:

• develop and implement BCE’s

Management
resources and
compensation
committee
d.F. denison (Chair), r.p. dexter,
S.a. Murray, C. rovinescu,
J. tory, l. Vachon

corporate governance policies
and guidelines

The MRCC assists the Board in
the oversight of:

• identify individuals qualified to

• compensation, nomination,

become members of the Board

• determine the composition of
the Board and its committees

evaluation and succession of
officers and other management
personnel

• determine the directors’

• BCE’s workplace policies and

compensation for Board and
committee service

• develop and oversee a process

to assess the Board, committees
of the Board, the Chair of the
Board, Chairs of committees,
and individual directors

• oversee BCE’s policies concerning

business conduct, ethics, public
disclosure of material information,
AI governance and other matters

• oversee BCE’s ESG strategy

(including climate change strategy
and climate-related matters, and
supply chain labour issues), and
its integration within BCE’s overall
business strategy, and disclosure.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

practices (including health
and safety policies, policies
ensuring a respectful workplace
free from harassment, and
policies ensuring a diverse
and inclusive workplace)

• BCE’s exposure to risk associated
with its executive compensation
and policies and identification
of practices and policies to
mitigate such risk.

Risk and pension fund
committee
C. rovinescu (Chair), r.p. dexter,
S.a. Murray, l.p. pagnutti,
K. Sheriff, r.C. Simmonds,
l. Vachon
The RPFC assists the Board in
the oversight of:

• BCE’s enterprise risk governance
framework and the policies,
procedures and controls
management uses to evaluate
and manage key risks to which
BCE is exposed

• BCE’s exposure to key risks,

except for risks that remain the
primary responsibility of another
committee of the Board

• the administration, funding

and investment of BCE’s pension
plans and funds

• the unitized pooled funds

sponsored by BCE for
the collective investment
of the funds and the participant
subsidiaries’ pension funds.

Executives
As of March 7, 2024
Mirko Bibic

robert Malcolmson

President and Chief Executive Officer
BCE Inc. and Bell Canada

Executive Vice President and
Chief Legal & Regulatory Officer
BCE Inc. and Bell Canada

President, Bell Media
Bell Canada

Stephen Howe
Chief Technology and Information Officer
Bell Canada

Blaik Kirby
Group President, Consumer and
Small & Medium Business (SMB)
Bell Canada

devorah lithwick
Senior Vice President and Chief Brand Officer
Bell Canada

Curtis Millen
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
BCE Inc. and Bell Canada

nikki Moffat
Executive Vice President, Corporate Services and
Chief Human Resources Officer
BCE Inc. and Bell Canada

Karine Moses
Senior Vice President, Content Development &
News and Vice Chair, Québec
Bell Canada

John Watson
Group President, Business Markets,
Customer Experience and AI
Bell Canada

Board of directors / Executives

Sean Cohan

223

Investor information
Share facts

Tax aspects

Symbol

Shareholders are required to pay tax on dividends received as well as on capital
gains they realize, if any, when they sell their shares or are deemed to have
sold them.

BCE

The sale or disposition of your shares
could trigger a capital gain

Listings

tSX and nYSE stock exchanges
You will find a summary of the differences
between our governance practices and the
NYSE corporate governance rules in the
Governance section of our website at BCE.ca.

Common shares outstanding
December 31, 2023 – 912,274,545

Quarterly dividend*

non-residents of Canada

2024 dividend schedule*

Dividends paid or credited to non-residents of Canada are subject to a 25% withholding
tax unless reduced by a tax treaty. Under current tax treaties, U.S. and U.K. residents
are subject to a 15% withholding tax.

Record date

Payment date**

March 15, 2024

April 15, 2024

June 14, 2024

July 15, 2024

September 16, 2024

October 15, 2024

December 16, 2024

January 15, 2025

2024 quarterly earnings
release dates

Investor information

Dividends

Since January 1, 2006 and unless stated otherwise, dividends paid by BCE Inc. to
Canadian residents are eligible dividends as per the Canadian Income Tax Act. Since
March 24, 2006 and unless stated otherwise, dividends paid by BCE Inc. to Québec
residents also qualify as eligible dividends.

$0.9975 per common share

* Subject to dividends being declared by the board of directors.
** When a dividend payment date falls on a date that is not a
business day, the payment is made on the following business day.

224

IMPORTANT: If you received Nortel Networks common shares in May 2000
and/or Bell Aliant Regional Communications Income Fund units in July 2006,
you should contact the Investor Relations group to learn more about the tax
implications of these plans of arrangement and the impact on the calculation
of your cost, or visit BCE.ca.

First quarter

May 2, 2024

Second quarter

August 1, 2024

Third quarter

November 7, 2024

Fourth quarter

February 6, 2025

Quarterly and annual reports as well as other
corporate documents can be found on our
website. Copies can be requested from the
Investor Relations group.

BCE InC. 2023 IntEgratEd annual rEport

Beginning in 2012, the Canada Revenue Agency introduced new rules requiring
residents of any country with which Canada has a tax treaty to certify that they
reside in that country and are eligible to have Canadian non-resident tax withheld
on the payment of their dividends at the tax treaty rate. Registered shareholders
should have completed the Declaration of Eligibility for Benefits under a Tax Treaty
for a Non-Resident Taxpayer and returned it to the transfer agent.

u.S. residents
In addition to the Declaration of Eligibility for Benefits under a Tax Treaty for a
Non-Resident Taxpayer mentioned above, we are required to solicit taxpayer
identification numbers and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form W-9 certifications
of residency from certain U.S. residents. If these have not been received, we may be
required to deduct the IRS’s specified backup withholding tax. For more information,
please contact the transfer agent or the Investor Relations group.

Shareholder services

Contact information

A convenient method for eligible shareholders to reinvest their dividends and
make optional cash contributions to purchase additional common shares without
brokerage costs.

For information on shareholder services or any
other inquiries regarding your account (including
stock transfer, address change, lost certificates
and tax forms), contact:

Dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan (DRP)

Dividend direct deposit service

Transfer agent and registrar

TSX Trust Company
301 – 100 Adelaide St. West
Toronto, Ontario M5H 4H1

Avoid postal delays and trips to the bank by subscribing to the dividend direct
deposit service.

Direct registration (DRS)

Holding your shares electronically in lieu of share certificates
Holdings are represented by a statement issued when establishing or subsequently
modifying your DRS balance. This option removes the risks of holding share
certificates, including their safekeeping, and most importantly, eases the replacement
process. Note that there is a cost to replace lost or stolen certificates as well as
certificates mailed and never received by the shareholder (if claimed later than
one year after mailing). Generally, this cost is a percentage of the value of the
shares represented.

e-mail bce@tmx.com
tel

416 682-3861 or 1 800 561-0934
(toll free in Canada and the U.S.)

fax

514 985-8843 or 1 888 249-6189
(toll free in Canada and the U.S.)

website tsxtrust.com

Investor relations
For financial inquiries:

E-delivery service

Enrol in the e-delivery service to receive the proxy material, the annual financial report
and/or quarterly reports by e-mail. By doing so, you will receive your documents
faster and in an environmentally friendly manner while helping your company
reduce its costs.

Duplicate mailings

Eliminate duplicate mailings by consolidating your accounts.

Manage your shareholder account

Enrol in Investor Central at tsxtrust.com/issuer-investor-login and benefit from
a wide variety of self-service tools to help track and manage your shares.

For further details on any of these services, registered shareholders (shares are
registered under your name) must contact the transfer agent. Non-registered
shareholders must contact their brokers.

Trademarks in this integrated annual report which are owned or used under licence by BCE Inc., Bell Canada or
their subsidiaries include, without limitation, BCE, BELL Design, BELL MOBILITY and BELL MEDIA. This integrated
annual report also includes trademarks of other parties. The trademarks referred to in this integrated annual
report may be listed without the ® and ™ symbols.
© BCE Inc., 2024. All rights reserved.

1 Carrefour Alexander-Graham-Bell
Building A, 8th Floor
Verdun, Québec H3E 3B3
e-mail investor.relations@bce.ca
tel
fax

1 800 339-6353
514 786-3970
or visit the Investors section
of our website at BCE.ca

BCE.CA

